太极拳口诀教学English formulae teaching for Tai Chi
1.1.1 十三式口诀Thirteen-form
1. Beginning Form 起势

Keep feet close together，hands beside thighs.
双腿并立，双手放在双腿两侧。

Move weight to the right foot and sink slowly， lift left knee slowly and step to the left，toes touch the ground，and then the whole foot.
重心到右腿慢慢往下沉，左腿左膝领劲慢慢往上提，向左横开一步，点地，踏实。

Move weight to the middle.
移重心到中间。

Draw abdomen in and sink.
收腹下沉。

Draw chest in and twist arms inward until the hand back to the front， in front of the thighs.
含胸，带双臂内旋，至掌背向前，位于大腿前方。

Continue sink and both hands go downward until they reach the knees.
继续下沉，双手指向下穿，至膝前。

Draw abdomen in and sink， raise both hands slowly in front of the body， shoulder height， and shoulder-width distance.
收腹下沉，双手在身体前方慢慢往上提，与肩同宽，提至与肩同高。

Sink，relax shoulders，elbows and hands.
下沉，松肩，松肘，松手。

Continue sink，and bring hands slowly down in front of the abdomen.
继续下沉，带双手慢慢向下落于小腹前。

2.Ye Ma Fen Zong on right右野马分鬃

Draw abdomen in and sink，chest in，twist arms inwards and hands back to back.
收腹下沉，含胸，双手内旋至掌背相对。

Turn slightly to the right，left hand goes down to the front of the knee，and right hand goes up to shoulder height.
微右转，左手往左膝前下穿，右手往上抬至与肩同高。

Sink and turn right,move weight to the left; right hand goes backward and left hand goes forward.
下沉右转，移重心到左腿；右手向后抽，左手向前穿。

Sink,twist hands outward,relax shoulders,elbows and hands.
下沉，双手外旋，松肩、松肘、松手。
	
Sink,turn slightly left,and lift right foot,meanwhile turn right hand,(palm to the front)， at the side of the thighs. Bend left arm， until fingers 45 degree to the right.
人下沉，微左转，提右腿，同时翻右掌心向前，于大腿外侧。左小臂微内收，至左掌指尖向右前方45°。

Sink and step to the right，cross hands before right knee.
下沉，右腿向右铲出，双手合于右前方。

Sink，turn left and move weight to the right leg.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿。

Turn slightly to the right，twist left hand，part hands and sink.
微右转，左手内旋，双手拉开，下沉。

3. Bei Zhe Kao 背折靠
Sink，turn left，left hand fist
下沉微左转，左手变拳。

Sink，right hand fist，turn right and move body weight to the left， left hand in front of the right shoulder. Right fist on the right knee，face upward.
下沉，右手变拳，右转移重心到左腿，左手随身体右转向右前划弧至右肩前。右拳拳心向上，下落于右膝上方。

Turn left and move weight to the right foot，twist right hand inward. Left fist down to the right ribs.
左转移重心到右腿，以右拳面为支点内旋。左拳下落于右肋处。

Turn slightly to the left，twist right fist，lift it and hit inside，and left fist down to the abdomen.
微左转，右拳内旋上提外摆，向内击出，左拳下落于腹前。

Sink，twist right fist，relax shoulder，elbow until right fist face to the left.
下沉，右手外旋，松肩、松肘至右拳心向左。

Move weight to the left，left fist at the left part of the abdomen，continue to twist right fist until it faces upward and stops at the middle of the body.
移重心到左腿，左拳在左小腹前，右手继续外旋至拳心向上，到身体前中线。

Sink and turn left，move weight to the right，right fist to the left crotch，left fist goes back to the left side of the waist.
下沉左转移重心到右腿，右拳到左胯前，左拳后拉到左腰上。

Turn slightly to the right，twist right hand inward，elbow goes to the right，and left elbow goes inward.
微右转，右手内旋，右肘拉开，左肘里折。

4.Yun Shou 云手

Relax and sink，fist open and left goes down to the inner part of the left thigh and right hand pushes.
放松下沉，左拳变掌下落于左大腿内侧，右拳变掌微前推。

Sink， turn right and move weight to the left， left hand goes up and right hand goes down.
下沉右转移重心到左腿，两手一上一下划弧。

Sink and turn hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Turn left.
左转。

Hands push to the left，meanwhile lift right foot at the back of the left foot
双手向左击出，同时右腿向左脚后方插步，手到脚到。

Move weight to the right foot, meanwhile hands draw arc, one up and one down.
移重心到右腿，同时两手一上一下划弧。

Sink and turn hands
下沉，翻掌。

Turn right
右转。

Sink，hands push to the right， meanwhile lift left foot to the left
下沉，左腿向左撤步，同时双手向右击出。

Keep weight on the left and step to the right 
重心在左腿，右脚向右横开一大步。

Sink，turn left and move weight to the right，then right hand is brought in front of the left crotch.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，带右手至左胯前。

Turn slightly to the right，lift right forearm and left forearm down to the inner part of the left knee
收右胯，微右转，右小臂上抬，左小臂下落于左膝内侧，掌背向前。

Sink，turn slightly to the right. Turn right hand to 45degree downward and turn left hand till palm to the right
下沉，微右转，翻右掌至斜下45°，左手掌心向右。

Continue to turn right, turn right palm to the outside and left palm to right 45degree
继续右转，翻掌至右掌心向外，左掌心向右前方45º。

Sink, turn right and move weight to the left,left hand goes up and hands together to the right
下沉右转移重心到左腿，左手向上划弧，双手合于右前方。

Body down and hand up,lift left forearm
上下对开，收左小臂。

Turn left hand to 45 degrees.
左手翻掌至掌心向斜下45°。

Push left hand with right hand，until palm to the outside
右手按左手至左掌心向外。

Turn slightly to the left，push right hand，and separate both hands，twist outward and sink. 
微左转，右手向外撑，双手拉开，微外旋，下沉。

5.You Deng Yi Gen 右蹬一根

Draw right foot in，meanwhile hands in front of the abdomen，palm to the back.
收右脚，同时双手合于腹前，掌心向内。

Sink，twist both hands inward and upward.
人下沉，双手内旋向里向上翻。

Sink，bring hands down.
下沉，带两手下落。

Upper body slightly up.
上身微起，胸腔膨胀。

Sink，draw chest in，twist both hands inward and upward.
人下沉，含胸，两手内旋向里向上翻。

Sink，hands in front of the chest，meanwhile lift right foot.
下沉，双手合于胸口，同时提右腿。

Kick with the right heel，meanwhile push hands to the sides.
右脚后跟用力向右蹬出，同时双手向两侧打开。

6.Yan Shou Gong Quan 掩手肱拳

Shake the right foot， lift the left foot and step to the left back 45degree， meanwhile hands press to the abdomen(left hand upon right fist).
震右脚，左腿向后45°撤步，同时右手变拳，左手变掌，从上方相合，下按于小腹前。

Turn slightly right，move weight to the left，then turn slightly left and twist both hands， separate.
微右转，移重心到左腿，微左转双手搓开。

Withdraw right crotch，turn left fingers downwards，twist right fist in front of the right chest， keep hands forearm’s distance.
收右胯，左手指领劲下旋，右拳里合，左手手指向下，右拳拳心向下合于右胸前，两手之间相距约一小臂宽。

Lean body slightly forward，draw left elbow inward.
人微前倾，左肘里合。

Body go back，turn the left fingers and point to the right.
身体回正，左手指领劲，旋向指尖向右。

Left hand pushes to the right fist，both hands upon the inner part of the right thing.
左掌外推，与右拳合于右腿里侧上方。

Sink，turn right，part the left hand and right fist.
下沉右转，左掌右拳前后拉开。

Sink，relax the right fist until it faces to the right,  meanwhile lift left hand.
下沉，右拳放松外旋至拳心向右，同时左手继续上抬。

Sink， withdraw right fist， relax left shoulder，elbow， hand 45degree down toward the ground.
下沉，收右拳，左手外旋松肩肘，至手掌斜下45°。

Sink， turn left and move weight to the right foot，continue to twist left hand till palm faces right.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，左手继续外旋至掌心向右。

Continue to turn left，withdraw left elbow till palm faces 45degree upon the ground， right fist goes forward and faces up.
继续左转，收左肘至手掌心斜向上45°，微顶右拳，拳心向上。

Sink and turn right，withdraw right fist to the waist，meanwhile left hand goes forward.
下沉，右转，右拳收于右腰间，同时穿左掌。

Move weight to the left，turn right，twist right fist and punch， meanwhile left elbow goes back with left fist.
移重心到左腿，左转，右拳内旋打出，同时左掌变拳左肘向后击出。

7. Xiao Qin Da 小擒打
Sink， move weight to the right， meanwhile hands open the fists， turn slightly right and part the hand，left hand down and right hand up.
下沉，移重心到右腿，同时双拳变掌微右转，左下右上拉开。

Sink，relax right shoulder and elbow.
下沉，右手松肩，松肘。

Sink， turn right and turn right hand till palm to the outside， meanwhile， left hand down to the inner part of the left knee.
下沉，右转翻右掌心朝外，同时左掌下落于左膝内侧。

Continue to turn right and move weight to the left，twist left arm till palm to the outside and fingers go forward upon the left knee， right hand goes backward.
继续右转，移重心到左腿，左臂内旋至掌心向外于膝盖上方穿掌，右手向后抽。

Twist both hands，relax shoulders，elbows till left palm down and right palm up.
双手外旋，松肩、松肘，至左手掌心向下，右手掌心向上。

Withdraw right foot， right hand down to the outside of the right knee， palm to the front.
收右腿，右手下落于右腿外侧，掌心向前。

Lift right foot and step to the front，with the right hand to the front，cross hands upon the right leg.
提右腿上步，带右手向前，两手合于右腿上方。

Sink，lift right forearm，and left elbow down.
上下对开，右小臂上抬，左肘下沉。

Turn right palm.
翻右掌。

Push the right arm with left hand，turn right foot outward.
左手推右手臂，摆右脚。

Move weight to the right.
移重心到右腿。

Sink and withdraw left foot.
下沉收左腿。

Lift left foot and step to the left.
提左腿向左铲出。

Sink， drop the left hand to the inner part of the right knee，palm pack.
下沉，左手下落于右膝内侧，掌心向后。

Turn slightly left and bring the left hand to the inner part of the left knee.
微左转，把左手带到左膝内侧。

Sink and turn right，withdraw right forearm，and goes back. Twist the left arm.
下沉右转，右小臂内收，向后抽。左臂内旋。

Move weight to the left when turning right.
随右转，移重心到左腿。

Turn body back，twist right hand outward and drop it to the middle of the body.
身体回正，右手外旋下落到身体中线。

Turn left and move weight to the right，right hand in front of the left crotch.
左转，移重心到右腿，右手到左胯前。

Turn slightly right，twist right hand inward， and lift right elbow，left hand pushes.
微右转，右手内旋，右肘领劲向上提，左手往下撑。

Kick with right foot，push right hand to the inner part of the left knee，left elbow goes back.
蹬右脚，右掌往左膝内侧下击，左肘往后击出。

8.Ru Feng Si Bi 如封似闭

Sink，turn slightly right and move weight to the right， press with the left hand to the left knee，right hand press to the middle of the body.
下沉，微右转移重心到右腿，左掌下按于左膝盖上方，右掌下按于裆前。

Turn right and hands turn to fists， twist right fist to the outside on the right leg， palm up， left hand in front of the body.
身体右转，同时双手变拳，右拳向外旋至右腿上方，拳心向上，左拳随右转向右到身体前方。

Continue to sink， turn right and move weight to the left， twist right hand till it’s beside the right knee.
继续下沉，右转，移重心到左腿，右拳旋至右膝外侧。

Draw right arm， right fist to the side of the right ear，drop left fist to the front of the right crotch.
收右臂，右拳合于右耳旁，左拳下落于右胯前。

Turn slightly left， twist right fist and it goes downward， drop left fist to the front of the abdomen.
微左转，右拳内旋领劲变向下栽拳，左拳下落于小腹前。

Withdraw right foot，and point to the ground，right fist goes downward.
收右脚，向右前点地，右拳向下栽。

Sink，turn slightly right.
人下沉，微右转。

Body goes up right with hands still touch the knee.
以左拳面为支撑点，把身体撑起。

Body goes back， twist hands outward，palms up and cross them in front of the lower part of the right chest.
上身回正，两手外旋上翻，变双掌心向上，交叉于右胸下方。

Sink，hands go forward，meanwhile step to the right.
下沉，双手微前伸，同时开右脚。

Sink，turn left and move weight to the right，open the arms.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，双手拉开。

Shrink the abdomen and sink，chest in，meanwhile twist hands behind the ears.
收腹，下沉，含胸，同时双手向内旋合于双耳后方。

Twist both hands slightly inward，turn right.
双手微内旋，身体右转。

Bring the left foot to the side of the right foot，meanwhile press with both hands， left hand upon the inner part of the right thigh and right hand upon the outer part of the right thigh.
带左脚上步于右脚旁，同时双手下按，左手在右大腿内侧，右手在右大腿外侧。

9. Dan Bian 单鞭
Sink，relax shoulders and elbows，turn right，twist both hands outward，draw right hand toward the body and left hand goes forward away from the body.
下沉，松肩，松肘，右转，双手外旋翻掌，右手内收，左掌外穿。

Turn left， draw right hand to the body，twist left hand outward upon the front of the right knee.
身体左转，右手向身体里合，左手外旋掌心向上合于右膝前上方。

Draw right crotch in， right hand becomes hook and twist inward， lift it up(the same direction like the right toes)，left palm to the abdomen.
收右胯，右手变勾微内旋，往右脚尖方向提，左掌里合于小腹前。

Lift left foot and step to the left.
提左腿，向左开步。

Sink，turn right and move weight to the left. 
下沉，右转移重心到左腿。

Turn left and draw the left hand till left fingers pointing forward. Meanwhile turn right toes inward.
左转，左手随左移，往左拉开至左手手指向前，同时勾右脚尖。

Sink，move weight to the right,  left hand goes through to the abdomen.
下沉，移重心到右腿，左手向右穿掌至小腹前。

Move weight to the left， meanwhile left hand goes to the right hand.
移重心到左腿，同时左掌继续往右手方向穿。

Sink,turn left palm till it faces to the front.
下沉，翻左掌到掌心向前。

Turn slightly left and part the left hand, slight twist left hand, sink.
微左转拉开，左手臂微外旋，下沉。

10.Que Di Long 雀地龙

Sink, turn slightly right, hands change to fists, left hand to the front of the left shoulder, drop the right fist to the inner part of the right thigh.
下沉，微右转，双手变拳外旋。左手里合于左肩前，右拳下落于右大腿内侧。

Sink turn left and move weight to the right， bring the right fist to the front of the left crotch.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，带右拳到左胯前。

Sink，twist both arms inward，and part them left fist down and right fist up.
下蹲，双臂内旋，双拳左下右上拉开。

11.Tui Bu Kua Hu退步跨虎
Kick with the right foot， left hand goes forward along the left knee， turn slightly right and twist it till it faces down， upon the right leg.
蹬右腿，左拳向左膝正前方冲拳，微右转右拳内旋至拳心向下，位于右腿上方。

Sink， turn left， withdraw the right foot and step forward， right fist under the left fist.
下沉，左转，带右腿向左上步，右拳随上步划弧合于左拳下方。

Sink， draw fists upward and inward.
人下沉，双拳向上向里合。

draw the chest in， twist both fists inward and turn out side， in front of the chest.
含胸，双拳内旋外翻变掌合于胸前。

Push forward.
向前击出。

Sink with hands down， twist them and lift up till the front of the face， meanwhile lift right knee and turn around to 90 degree.
下沉，带双手下落，内旋上提至面部前方，同时提右膝右转90°。

Shake the right foot， meanwhile drop both hands to the abdomen.
震脚，同时双手落于小腹前。

12. Jin Gang Dao Dui 金刚捣碓
Shrink the abdomen and sink, chest in, twist both arms inward and turn the hands， lift the right foot and step to the back.
收腹下沉，含胸，双臂内旋翻掌，提右脚往后撤步。

Turn right and move weight to the left, twist left hand, draw both hands to the right part of the body.
右转，移重心到右腿，左手外旋，带双手到身体右前方。

Turn slightly left and draw the left hand to the left knee.
微左转，带左手内旋到左膝上方。

Sink and turn the left palm up on the left knee.
下沉，翻左掌心向上，落在左膝上方。

Lift the left palm, turn slightly right and draw the left hand to the middle of the body.
左掌上抬，微右转带左掌到身体前中线。

Sink and hands go up，turn right，twist left hand inward till palm 45degree，pointing to the right front，and right hand goes back.
上下对开，右转，左手内旋至掌心斜向45º，指尖向右前方，右手向后抽。

Sink , twist left hand inward and right hand outward and palms down.
下沉，左手内旋、右手外旋翻掌向下。

Sink, draw both hand down and press.
人下沉，带双手下按。

Turn slightly right and move weight to the left, turn left, body back and relax.
微右转，移重心到左腿，身体左转，至身体回正时放松下沉。

Shrink the abdomen and sink, chest in, part the elbows.
收腹下沉，含胸，双肘微打开。

Open the hands slightly, relax, and continue to open the hands with left palm down and right palm up.
双手微打开，放松，双手继续向两侧打开，左手掌心向下，右手掌心向上。

Turn left and turn left foot， lift right foot and step to the front， bring the right hand to the front and 
left hand touch the lower part of the the upper arm.
左转，摆左脚尖，提右腿上步，带右手向前，左手合于右大臂下方。

Sink, and lift the right forearm.
下沉，右手小臂向上抬。

Continue to sink, relax both hands and drop them, meanwhile turn the left hand to the abdomen and drop the right hand to the right knee.
继续下沉，双手放松向下落，同时左手贴身翻掌，掌心向上落于小腹前，右手向下落于右膝上方。

Lift the right knee, and the right fist.
提右膝，右手变拳上提。

Shake the right foot, meanwhile punch the right fist to the left hand.
震脚，同时右手砸拳于左掌心。

13.Closing Form 收势

Sink, part both hands to the side, palm inward.
下沉，双手向身体两侧拉开，掌心向里。

Stand up, draw hands to shoulder height. Palms down.
人起来，双手拉至肩平，掌心向下。

Sink, turn hands up and draw them up till palms face each other over the head.
人下沉，双手翻掌心向上，划弧至头顶，掌心相对。

Continue to sink, and press the hands down to the chest.
继续下沉，双手下按至胸前。

Slightly stand up, and press the hands to the abdomen.
Part the hands to the side, move weight to the right, sink and relax, hands go forward in an arc and back to the abdomen, meanwhile withdraw the left foot.
双手向两侧拉开，移重心到右腿，下沉放松，双手往前下方划弧，收拢至下腹部，同时收左腿。

Stand with feet close together, and draw hands back to the side of the body.
双脚并拢，双手自然回于身体两侧。

1.1.2 十九式口诀 Nineteen-form
1. 起势 Beginning form

Stand with feet together and hands at the outside of the thighs.
双腿并立，双手放在双腿两侧。

Shift the weight center to the right leg, bend the right leg and sink, lift the left knee up and step to the left, landing the toes and then the whole foot.
重心到右腿，右腿慢慢往下沉 ，左腿左膝领劲慢慢往上提，向左横开一步，点地，踏实。

Stand up slowly and shift the weight center to the middle.
右脚慢慢站立，移重心到中间。
  
Draw the abdomen in, sink , expand the chest.
收腹，下沉，胸腔膨胀。

Continue to sink and drop the hands down to the outside of the knees.
继续下沉，带双手下落于双膝外侧。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, chest in, and turn both arms inward.
收腹，下沉，含胸，带双臂内旋。

Continue to sink, relax the shoulders and elbows.
继续下沉，松肩，松肘。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, expand the chest. Lift up the hands slowly in front of the body.
收腹，下沉，胸腔膨胀，双手在身体前方慢慢往上提。

Draw the shoulders backward, sink, continue to sink, relax the shoulders and elbows. 
双肩向后，下沉，继续下沉，松肩，松肘。

Lean slightly forward.
微前倾。

Sink, and drop the hands down.
下沉，带双手下落。


2.金刚捣碓Jin Gang Dao Dui

Draw abdomen in, sink, drop the hands, draw the chest in, and turn the left arm inward and the right hand outward to the center.
收腹，下沉，双手下落，含胸，左手臂内旋,右手外旋向左划弧。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, and turn both hands.
下沉，微右转，双手翻掌。

Sink, turn slightly to the left and shift the weight center to the right, and ward off to the left.
下沉，微左转移重心到右腿，双手向左方掤出。

Sink and raise the hands up, relax the left shoulder, elbow, lift up the right forearm, turn both hands.
上下对开，左手松肩、松肘，右小臂上抬，双手翻掌。

Turn slightly to the right, shift the weight center to the left, and continue to turn both hands and swing to the right.
微右转，移重心到左腿，双手继续翻掌，向右划弧。
 
Sink, turn to the right, and turn the right toes outward.
下沉，右转，摆右脚尖。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, expand the chest, and draw both hands backward slightly.收腹，下沉，胸腔膨胀,两手微内收。

Draw the chest in, separate the elbows slightly.
含胸，双肘微打开。

Sink, relax the back of the body.
下沉，后背放松。

Sink, lean forward, and draw both hands backward slightly.
下沉，上身前倾，双手微内收。

Sink, shift the weight center to the right, and push both hands forward.
下沉，移重心到右腿，双手前推。

Continue to sink, draw in the left foot, and push both hands forward opposite with the body
.继续下沉，收左腿，双手前推与身体对开。

Draw the right hip inward, move hands opposite with the body and draw in the left foot.
收右胯，手与身体对开，收左腿。

Sink, lift the left foot and step 45 degrees to the left of the back.
下沉，提左腿向左后45°铲出。

Sink and raise the hands, lift the left forearm up.
上下对开，左小臂上抬。

Turn to the right, draw the right hand backward, and turn the left hand inward.
右转， 右手向后抽，左手内旋。

Sink, turn the left hand inward, the right hand outward and push, palms down.
下沉，左手内旋、右手外旋前推，翻掌向下。

Sink, and press the hands downward.
下沉，带双手下按。

Turn the body slightly to the right, shift the weight center to the left, turn the body to the left, relax and sink when the body is turning back, turn the right hand, palm up.
微右转，移重心到左腿，身体左转，至身体回正时放松下沉，翻右手，掌心向上。

Draw the abdomen in and sink, draw the chest in, and separate the elbows. 
收腹下沉，含胸，双肘打开。

Part the hands.
双手向两侧打开。

Relax the back of the body, continue to part the hands.
后背放松，双手继续向两侧打开。

Sink, turn the body to the left, turn the right hand inward, palm to the front and down to the outside of the right thigh, draw the left hand slightly inward.
下沉，身体左转，右手内旋至右手掌心向前，下落于右大腿外侧，左手微内收。

Lift the right foot and step forward, move the right hand forward, left fingers on the lower part of the right upper arms.
提右腿上步，带右手向前，左手合于右大臂下方。

Sink, lift the right forearm up.
下沉，右小臂向上抬。

Lean slightly forward, turn the left palm up, close to the body, draw in the right hand.
微前倾，左手贴身翻掌，右手微里合。

Sink, relax both hands, drop them downward, and draw back the right foot.
下沉，双手放松下落，收右脚。

Lift the right knee and right fist up.
提右膝，右手由掌变拳上提。

Stomp the right foot and punch.
震脚砸拳。

3. 懒扎衣Lan Zha Yi
         
Draw the abdomen in, chest in, and turn the elbows outward.
收腹下沉，含胸，双肘掤出。

Turn the elbows inward, turn slightly to the right, shift the weight center to the left, move both hands to the right of the front.
双肘里合，右转移重心到左腿，双手向右前方掤出。

Continue turning the elbows inward, sink, turn to the left, shift the weight center to the right, and drop the hands before the left hip.
双肘继续里合，下沉，左转，移重心到右腿，双手下落贴于左胯前。

Draw the right hip inward, chest in, rotate both elbows outward.
收右胯，含胸，双肘向外旋出。

Rotate both arms inward, sink, lift the right elbow up, thread the left hand down with the palm facing backward.
双臂内旋，人下沉，右肘向上提，左掌心向内贴大腿下穿。

Sink, turn to the right and shift the weight center to the left, push the right fist outward.
下沉，右转移重心到左腿，右拳外推。

Turn slightly to the left, thread the left hand down to the left, meanwhile, rotate the right arm outward.
微左转，左掌往左下方穿掌同时右手臂外旋。

Turn to the right, rotate the left arm outward and move it to the right in a curve, continue to rotate the right hand outward.
右转，左臂外旋向右划弧，右手继续外旋。

Turn to the left, body back to the front, move the right hand to the left, cross the hands, sink.
左转，身体回正，带右拳向左，双手相合，下沉。

Continue to sink, thread the right hand, drop the left hand downward, turn to the left and shift the weight center to the right.
继续下沉，穿右掌，左掌笔直下落，左转移，重心到右腿。

Draw the right hip in, rotate the right hand, turn the right hand; rotate the left hand, palm back, turn slightly to the right , part the right hand, turn the body back to the front.
收右胯，右手内旋，翻右掌；左手内旋至掌心向后，微右转，右手拉开，身体回正。

Sink, draw the right forearm in.
人下沉，收右小臂。

Draw the right hand backward, turn to the right and shift the weight center to the left.
右手向后抽，右转移重心到左腿。

Turn slightly to the left, thread the left hand to the left, palm back, turn the body back to the front and push the right hand out.
微左转，左手掌心向后向左穿掌，身体回正，右手外推。

Sink, turn slightly to the right, rotate both hands outward, move the left hand to the front.
下沉，微右转，双手外旋翻掌，带左手向前。

Draw the right hip in, sink, rotate the right hand, palm to the front.
收右胯，下沉，右手内旋至掌心向前。

Sink, turn slightly to the left, draw the right foot in, drop the right hand; draw the left forearm in.
下沉，微左转，收右腿，右手下落；左小臂内收。

Sink, expand the chest, rotate the right hand slightly outward, and draw the left forearm in.
下沉，开胸，右手微外旋，左小臂内收。

Sink, lift the right foot and step to the right, cross the hands at the inner part of the right knee.
下沉，提右腿向右铲出，双手合于右膝内侧。

Sink, turn to the left, shift the weight center to the right, turn the left heel inward, move the hands before the left hip.
下沉，左转，移重心到右腿，左脚跟内收，两手落于左胯前。

Sink and raise the hands, lift the right forearm, drop the left elbow slightly.
上下对开，收右小臂，同时左肘微下落。

Sink, turn the right hand, palm 45 degrees.
下沉，右手翻掌至掌心斜下45°。

Push the right hand , palm facing outward .
左手推右手至右手掌心向外。

Sink, push the right hand forward, press the left hand down to the abdomen.
人下沉，右手前推，左手下按至腹前。

Sink, turn the body to the right, back to the front, relax the right shoulder, lower the elbow, turn outward, sink, meanwhile turn the left hand.
下沉，右转，身体回正，右手松肩、沉肘，外旋，下沉，同时翻左掌。

4. 上步斜行Shang Bu Xie Xing
Sink, turn the left toes outward, turn to the left, and rotate the right hand outward.
下沉，摆左脚尖，左转，右手外旋。

Sink, turn to the left, thread the left hand to the right, continue to rotate the right hand outward.
下沉，左转，左掌向右手方向穿，右掌继续外旋。

Continue to turn to the left, rotate the left hand inward, and the right hand outward.
继续左转，左手内旋，右手继续外旋。

Turn slightly to the left, lift the right foot and step forward, move the hands upward, forward, then sink and press down. 
微左转，提右腿上步，带双手向上、向前，下沉，双手下打。

Draw the abdomen in and sink, drop both hands to the thighs, expand the chest, lift the hands up to the hips and sink, draw the chest slightly in, separate the elbows aside meanwhile turn the right toes outward. 
收腹下沉，双手下落贴大腿，胸腔膨胀，带双手向上提至掌跟贴于双胯前下沉，微含胸，两肘向身体两侧打开，同时摆右脚尖。

Turn the body to the right, lean forward and shift the weight center to the right.
右转，前倾，移重心到右腿。

Sink, draw the left foot in, meanwhile relax and drop the hands before the knees.
下沉，收左腿，同时两手放松下落于两膝前。

Stand up slightly, turn the body to the left, rotate the left hand inward and the right hand outward.
身体微站起，左转，左手内旋，右手外旋。
 
Sink, turn the body to the right, move hands up to the left in a curve, meanwhile, lift the left foot up.
下沉，右转，两手向左上划弧，同时提左腿。

Sink, lift the left foot and step 45 degrees to the left, hands ward off to the right of the front.
下沉，提左腿向左侧45°铲出，双手掤于右前方。

Sink and raise the hands, turn slightly to the right and turn the hands.
上下对开，微右转，翻掌。

Sink , draw the right forearm slightly in, press with the left hand.
下沉，右小臂微里收，左手向下按。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, thread with the right hand, turn to the left and bring the left hand to the inner part of the left knee.
收腹，下沉，右掌微前穿，左转带左手于左膝内侧。

Sink, rotate the left hand inward and fingers pointing to the right, shift the weight center to the left, draw the right hand in, move the left hand forward till the palm close to the inner part of the left knee.
下沉，左手内旋至指尖向里，移重心到左腿，右手内收，左手前移至掌根贴左膝内侧。

Sink, relax the left shoulder, elbow, turn the body to the left, move the left hand around the left knee, move the right hand to the center.
下沉，左手松肩、松肘，左转，左手沿左膝盖绕圈，右手向身体中线划弧。

Sink, turn left hand to hook, move body upright, meanwhile, push the right hand to the front of the left shoulder.
下沉，左手变勾手，身体回正，同时右手推至左肩前。

Draw the right hip in, sink, draw chest in, rotate the hands inward.
收右胯，下沉，含胸，双手内旋。

Move the body upright, lift the left hand up and push the right hand forward.
上身回正，提左手，右手前推。

Sink, turn the body to the right, part the right hand, sink, rotate the right arm outward, relax the shoulder and elbow.
下沉，右转，右手拉开，人下沉，右手臂外旋，松肩、松肘。

5.初收 Chu Shou

Sink, draw the abdomen in , chest in, rotate both hands inward, turn the body slightly to the right move the left hand to the right hand.
下沉，收腹，含胸，双手内旋，微右转，带左手至右手处，双手背相合。

Sink, relax the shoulders and elbows.
下沉，松肩、松肘。

Continue to rotate both hands outward, turn the body slightly to the left, drop the hands meanwhile expand the chest.
双手继续外旋，微左转，双手下落同时胸腔膨胀。

Draw the abdomen in, chest in, and part the elbows slightly.
收腹下沉，含胸，两肘微打开。

Continue to sink, thread both hands downward.
继续下沉，双手向下插。

Draw the chest in, hold the hands to dig.
含胸，双手变挖。

Stand up and lift both hands up.
人起来，带双手上提。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left(turn the elbows inward), rotate both hands outward, shift the weight center to the right.
下沉，左转（右肘里合），双手外旋，移重心到右腿。

Turn the right heel outward, withdraw the left leg, drop the hands.
摆右脚跟，收左腿，双手下落。

Move the hip out, drop the hands.
顶胯，双手下落。

Draw the hip in, chest slightly in, sink, move the hands up in a curve.
收胯，微含胸，下沉，双手向上划弧。

Draw the chest in, rotate both hands inward, close the hands before the shoulders.
含胸，双手内旋合于双肩前。

Lean forward, rotate both hands inward, drop the hands down, close before the chest.
身体前倾，双手内旋下落合于胸前。

Lift up the left leg, thread the hands down.
提左腿，双手向下插。

6. 前蹚拗步Qian Tang Ao Bu
Land the left foot, lift both hands up 45 degrees to the left of the front.
左脚点地，双手上提到左前方45°。

Sink, drop the hands down to the right, meanwhile draw the left foot in, expand the chest, rotate the right arm outward.
人下沉，双手向右下方落，同时收左腿，胸腔膨胀，右手臂外旋。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, rotate the left hand inward and the right hand outward.
下沉，微左转，左手内旋，右手外旋。

Sink, turn the body to the right, rotate the left hand inward and the right hand outward, and move them up in a curve to the right.
下沉，右转，左手内旋，右手外旋，向右向上划弧。

Sink, draw the left hip in, turn to the left, lift the left leg and turn the left toes outward, rotate the left hand outward; draw the right hand in, rotate inward.
下沉，收左胯，左转，提左腿摆左脚尖，左手外旋外翻；右手里合内旋。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, turn the body slightly to the left, put the right hand on the left wrist.
收腹，下沉，微左转，右手搭于左手腕。

Push the left hand with the right hand, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the left.
右手推左手，左转移重心到左腿。

Sink, continue to turn the body to the left, rotate the left hand outward and move it in a curve to the left, then up and rotate it inward and move to the right, meanwhile draw the right leg in.
下沉，继续左转，左手外旋，向左向上、内旋，向右划弧，同时收右腿。

Sink, rotate the left hand inward, move up, and the right hand outward to the right, lift up the right leg. Move the hands in a curve, move the hands downward and then forward, meanwhile step back.
人下沉，左手内旋，向上，右手外旋向右，提右腿。双手再向下划弧前伸，同时向后撤步。

Sink and raise the hands, lift the right forearm.
上下对开，收右小臂。

Sink, turn the right hand.
下沉，翻右掌。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, turn right hand, push the right hand with the left hand, right palm facing out.
收腹，下沉，右手翻掌，左手推右手至右手掌心向外。

Sink, shift the weight center to the right, rotate the left hand inward and push out, turn the body to the right, part the hands, rotate both arms outward, sink.
下沉，移重心到右腿，左手内旋外撑，身体右转，双手拉开，下沉双臂微外旋，人下沉。

7.青龙出水 Qing Long Chu Shui

Sink, turn hands to fists, rotate the right fist outward, shift the weight center to the left, move the hands in a curve, left hand up and right hand down.
下沉，双掌变拳，右拳外旋，移重心到左腿，同时双手一上一下划弧。

Sink, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the right.
下沉，左转，移重心到右腿。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, expand the chest, close the hands to the body.
收腹，下沉，胸腔膨胀带双手里合。

Draw the chest in, lean slightly forward, close the fists
含胸，微前倾，双拳里合。

Turn the body to the right, rotate the right forearm inward and hit to the inner part of the right knee, meanwhile, hit backward with the left elbow.
身体右转，右小臂内旋向右膝盖内侧击出，左肘向后同时击出。

8. 双推手 Shuang Tui Shou

Relax and sink, drop the left fist down. 
人放松下沉，左拳下落。

Continue to sink, drop the right fist down.
继续下沉，右拳下落。

Turn the body slightly to the left, move right hip out, rotate the right fist outward and the left fist inward.
微左转，顶右胯，右拳外旋，左拳内旋。

Draw the right hip in, rotate both arms inward, hand back to back.
收右胯，双臂内旋，至两拳背相对。

Sink, continue to rotate both arms inward, lift up the right fist.
下沉，双臂继续内旋，提右拳。

Sink, rotate both forearms outward, relax shoulders and elbows, fists up.
下沉，双小臂外旋，松肩、松肘至拳心向上。

Sink, drop the right fist, shift the weight center to the left, open the fists, rotate the left hand inward, hand back to back before the abdomen.
人下沉，右拳下落。移重心到左腿，双手变掌，左手内旋，双手背合于腹前。

Draw the abdomen in and sink, chest in, rotate the right hand inward, and lift it up, turn the right hand, palm forward.
收腹下沉，含胸，右手内旋上提，翻右掌至掌心向外。

Shift the weight center to the right, move hands to the right of front.
移重心到右腿，双手向右前方挤出。

Sink, turn left and turn the left toes outward, meanwhile move hands downward in a curve.
下沉，左转摆左脚尖，同时双手随身体左转向下划弧。

Sink, drop both hand down. Left hand changes to Diaoshou and lift it up and right hand drop at the outside of the right thigh.
下沉，双手下落，左手变刁手上提，右手下落于右腿外侧。

Sink, turn left and turn left toes outward, turn right heel outward and shift the body center to the left leg.
下沉，左转摆左脚尖，右脚跟外摆移重心到左腿。

Lift the left hand and step forward with the right foot, move the right hand in a curve, right palm up.
左手上提，提右腿上步，右手划弧变托手。

Sink, step a little pace forward with the right foot.
下沉，右脚向前跨一小步。

Sink, rotate the left hand outward, relax the left shoulder and elbow, palm up.
下沉，左手外旋松肩、松肘，手掌外旋至掌心向上。

Sink, thread the right hand forward, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the right, part the left hand, meanwhile turn the left heel inward.
下沉，右手向前穿掌，左转，移重心到右腿，左手打开，同时左脚跟内勾。

Draw the abdomen in and sink, chest in, rotate both hands inward, palms facing forward, sink, draw both hands in, close to the ears.
收腹下沉，含胸，双手内旋至掌心向前，下沉，双手里收合于双耳旁。

Rotate both hands inward, turn the body to the right.
双手内旋，身体右转。

Sink, turn the body to the right, continue to rotate both hands inward, push forward, meanwhile step forward with the left foot, sink.
下沉，右转，双手继续内旋向前推出，同时提左腿上步，人下沉。

9.倒卷肱Dao Juan Gong

Sink, relax the shoulders and elbows, turn both hands outward.
下沉，松肩、松肘，双手外翻。

Sink, turn the body to the left, thread the left hand forward and draw the right hand backward.
下沉，左转，左手外穿,右手里收。

Sink, turn the body to the right and rotate both hands inward at the same time, move the left hand in a curve to the right, cross the wrists.
下沉，右转同时双手内旋，左手向右划弧，双手腕相合。

Sink, rotate and turn both hands inward, lift the left leg and step backward to the left, thread both hands forward.
下沉，双手内旋翻掌，提左腿向左后铲出，同时双手前穿。

Sink, rotate both hands inward, turn the body to the left, part the hands.
下沉，双手内旋，左转，拉开。

Sink, turn hands, turn the body to the left.
下沉，翻掌，左转。

Sink, rotate the right hand inward, shift the weight center to the left, thread the left hand above the left knee.
下沉，右掌内旋，移重心到左腿，左掌向左膝上方穿掌。

Draw the right hip in, turn the right hand, close the left hand before the ear.
收右胯，右手变搂，左手合于耳前。

Turn the body to the right, turn the left heel outward, draw the right leg in, continue to turn the left heel outward, meanwhile, push the left hand forward.
右转，左脚跟外摆，收右腿，左脚跟继续外摆，同时左掌往前推。

Sink, draw the right hand close to the body, step 45 degrees backward to the right, continue to push the left hand forward.
下沉，右手里合，右腿向右后45°铲出，左手继续向前推出。

Sink, rotate both hands inward, turn slightly to the right, part the hands.
下沉，双手内旋，微右转，拉开。

Sink, turn the hands, turn the body to the right.
下沉，翻掌，右转。

Sink, rotate the left hand inward, shift the weight center to the right, thread the right hand above the right knee.
下沉，左掌内旋，移重心到右腿，右掌向右膝上方穿掌。

Draw the left hip inward, turn the left hand, close the right hand before the ear.
收左胯，左手变搂，右手合于耳前。

Turn the body to the left, turn the right heel outward, draw the left leg in, continue to turn the right heel outward, meanwhile push the right hand forward.
左转，右脚跟外摆，收左腿，右脚跟继续外摆，同时右掌往前推。

Sink, close the left hand to the body, step 45 degrees backward to the left, continue to push forward with the right hand.
下沉，左手里合，左腿向左后45°铲出，右手继续向前推出。

Sink, rotate both hands inward, turn the body slightly to the left, part the hands.
下沉，双手内旋，微左转，拉开。

10. 掩手肱拳Yan Shou Gong Quan

Sink, rotate both hands outward, drop the left hand down.
下沉，双手外旋，左手下落。

Turn the body slightly to the right, rotate both hands outward, draw the right fist backward to the waist, meanwhile thread the left hand.
微右转，双手外旋，右掌变拳收于右腰间，同时左手穿掌。

Draw the left hip in, lean slightly forward, kick with the right leg, shift the weight center to the left, turn the body to the left, move right hip out, rotate the right fist and punch, meanwhile, hit backward with the left elbow.
收左胯，微左倾，蹬右腿，移重心到左腿，左转，顶右胯，右拳内旋打出，同时左掌变拳，左肘向后击出。

11.如封似闭Ru Feng Si Bi

Move the right hip in, sink, rotate both hands inward.
收右胯，下沉, 双手内旋。

Draw chest in, turn the body slightly to the right, continue to rotate both arms inward.
含胸，微右转，双臂继续内旋。

Turn the body to the right, move the left hand to the right hand.
右转，左手找右手。

Move the right hip in, turn the body slightly to the right, lower the right elbow down slightly.
收右胯，微右转，右肘微下沉。

Sink, rotate both hands outward, turn the body back to the front.
下沉，双手外旋，身体回正。

Lean to the left.
上身左倾。

Sink, rotate both fists outward and open them, turn the body to the left, part the hands slightly.
下沉，双拳外旋变掌，左转，双手微打开。

Sink, turn the right toes inward, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the right, thread the right hand the same direction with the right thigh, meanwhile continue to part the hands aside.
下沉，勾右脚尖，左转移重心到右腿，右手沿右大腿方向穿掌，同时双手继续向两侧打开。

Draw the abdomen in and sink, chest in, rotate both hands inward, close them beside the ears.
收腹下沉，含胸、双手内旋，合于双耳旁。

Rotate both hands inward, turn the body to the right.
双手内旋，身体右转。

Draw the left foot forward beside the right foot, press down.
带左脚上步于右脚旁，双手下按。

12.云手Yun Shou、

Sink, relax the shoulders and elbow.
下沉，松肩，松肘。

Move the right hip out, drop the right hand down, rotate the left hand slightly outward.
顶右胯，右手下落， 左手微外旋。


Turn the body slightly to the left, rotate the right hand inward to the right hip, move the left hand above the left thigh.
微左转，带右手内旋至右胯前，左手随身体左转至左大腿上方。

Sink, turn the left heel inward, rotate the left hand outward and the right hand inward, separate them, right hand up and left hand down.
下沉，收左脚跟，左手外旋，右手内旋，一上一下拉开。

Sink, lift the left leg, step to the left.
下沉，提左腿向左开一小步。

Lean slightly forward, move the left hand to the center.
身体微前倾，带左手贴身体中线。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, shift the weight center to the left, rotate the left hand inward and right hand outward and move them one up and one down in a curve.
下沉，微右转，移重心到左腿左手内旋、右手外旋双手一上一下划弧。

Sink, turn both hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Turn the body to the left, push hands to the left, lift the right foot and step to the left behind the left foot.
左转，带双手向左击出，提右腿向左脚后方插步。 

Sink slightly, shift the weight center to the right, rotate the right hand inward and the left hand outward and move them one up and one down in a curve.
微下沉，移重心到右腿，右手内旋、左手外旋，一上一下划弧。

Sink, turn both hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Turn the body to the right, push to the right, lift the left foot and step to the left.
右转，带双手向右击出，提左腿向左开步。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, shift the weight center to the left, rotate the left hand inward and the right hand outward, move them one up and one down in a curve. 
下沉，微右转，移重心到左腿，左手内旋、右手外旋，双手一上一下划弧。

Sink, turn both hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Turn to the left, push to the left, lift the right foot and step to the right.
左转，带双手向左击出，提右腿向右开步。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, shift the weight center to the right, rotate the left hand inward and the right hand outward, move them one up and one down in a curve.
下沉，微左转，移重心到右腿，右手内旋、左手外旋，双手一上一下划弧。

Sink, turn both hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Turn the body to the right, push to the right, lift the left foot and step to the right behind the right foot.
右转，带双手向右击出，提左腿向右脚后方插步。 

Sink slightly, shift the weight center to the left, rotate the left hand inward and the right hand outward, move them one up and one down in a curve.
微下沉，移重心到左腿，左手内旋、右手外旋，一上一下划弧。

Sink, turn both hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, relax the right shoulder and elbow, lift the right foot, step to the right, drop the right hand, push the left hand forward.
下沉，微右转，松肩、松肘，提右腿向右横开一大步，右手下落，左手前推。

Sink, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the right, move the right hand before the left hip, push the left hand and drop it down.
下沉，左转，移重心到右腿，带右手于左胯前，左手前推下落。

Move the right hip in, turn the body slightly to the right, lift up the right forearm, rotate the left forearm inward and drop it down.
收右胯，微右转，右小臂上抬，左小臂内旋下落。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, turn the right hand 45 degrees downward, turn the left hand, palm to the right.
下沉，微右转，翻右掌至斜下45°，左手翻掌至掌心向右。

Continue to turn the body to the right, turn the right hand, palm out, relax the left shoulder and elbow. 
继续右转， 翻掌至右掌心向外，左手松肩、松肘。

Sink, turn the body to the right and shift the weight center to the left, rotate the left hand outward and move it up in a curve, drop the right hand slightly down, cross hands to the front of the right.
下沉，右转移重心到左腿，左手外旋向上划弧，右手微下落，双手合于右前方。

Sink and raise the hands, lift the left forearm up, lower the right elbow.
上下对开，收左小臂，右肘微下落。

Sink, turn the left hand, palm 45 degrees downward.
下沉，左手翻掌至掌心斜下45°。

Push the left hand with the right, left palm out.
右手推左手至左手掌心向外。

Rotate the right hand and push outward, turn the body to the left, part the hands, rotate both arms, sink.
右手内旋外撑，左转，双手拉开，微外旋，下沉。


13. 高探马Gao Tan Ma
Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, turn the left toes outward, draw the left wrist inward, rotate the right hand outward and drop the right hand down.
下沉，微左转，摆左脚尖，左腕领劲里收，右手外旋下落。

Continue to turn to the left, lift the right leg up and step forward, move the left forearm toward the right chest.
继续左转，提右腿上步，左小臂向右胸里合。

Sink, expand the chest, rotate the right hand, move the left forearm toward the body.
下沉，开胸，右手微外旋，左小臂内收。

Sink, lift the right leg and step to the right, cross the hands at the inner side of the right knee.
下沉，提右腿向右铲出，双手合于右膝内侧。

Sink, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the right, turn the left heel inward and move the hands to the left hip.
下沉 ，左转，移重心到右腿左脚跟内收，带双手于左胯前。

Sink and raise the hands, draw the right forearm toward the body and lower the left elbow.
上下对开， 收右小臂左肘下落。

Sink, turn the right hand 45 degrees. 
下沉，右手翻掌至掌心斜下45°。

Push the right hand with the left, right palm facing out.
左手推右手至右手掌心向外。

Rotate the left hand inward and push aside, turn the body to the right, part the hands, rotate both arms outward, then sink.
左手内旋外撑，右转，双手拉开，微外旋，下沉。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, rotate the left hand outward, palm facing up.
下沉，微左转，左手外旋，翻左掌向上。

Turn the body to the right, move the right hand down, rotate the left hand inward and move it to the right in a curve.
右转 ，带右手向下，左手内旋向右划弧。

Sink, lean slightly forward, turn the right hand, right palm touch the side of the right thigh.
下沉，人微前倾，翻右掌贴于右大腿。

Sink, rotate the right hand outward, turn the hand and lift it up, press with the left hand.
下沉右手外旋翻掌上抬，左手下按。

Turn the body slightly to the left, rotate the left hand outward palm facing inside, turn the body to the left, rotate the left hand inward and move it to the center, rotate the right hand inward and close to the ear.
微左转，左手外旋至掌心向内，左转，带左手内旋至身体中线，右手内旋合于耳旁。

Turn the body to the left, draw the left foot in, turn the left hand up and push forward with the right hand.
左转，收左腿，左手翻掌向上，右手向前推出。

14. 右蹬一跟You Deng Yi Gen
Sink, rotate the right hand outward, relax the shoulder,elbow, right hand facing left, turn the left hand at the same time. 
下沉，右手外旋，松肩、松肘至掌心向左，同时左手翻掌。

Continue to sink, turn the left hand facing back, and drop the right hand down to the thigh.
继续下沉，翻左手掌心向里，右手下落于右腿上方。

Rotate the left hand till fingers pointing down, turn the body slightly to the right, shift the weight center to the left, and close both hands before the abdomen.
左手以掌根为支点，旋至指尖向下，微右转，移重心到左腿，两手相合于腹前。

Sink, thread both hands downward. 
下沉，双手下插。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, draw the chest in, rotate both arms inward.
收腹，下沉，含胸，双臂内旋。

Continue to rotate both hands inward and sink, lift both elbows up.
双手继续内旋，下沉，双肘上提。

Lean forward, rotate both hands outward and turn the hands.
前倾，双手外旋翻掌。

Sink, drop both hands down.
下沉，带双手下落。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, draw the chest in, rotate both arms inward.
收腹，下沉，含胸，双臂内旋。

Continue to rotate both hands inward, sink, lift both elbows up.
双手继续内旋，人下沉，双肘上提。

Lean forward, rotate and turn both hands.
前倾，双手外旋翻掌。

Sink, close both hands and lift the right leg.
下沉，双手里合提右腿。

Kick with the right heel to the right, and part both hands aside .
右脚跟用力向右蹬出，同时双手向两侧打开。

Sink, land the right foot.
下沉，收右脚点地。

15.左蹬一跟Zuo Deng Yi Gen

Turn the body to the right, move the left hand to the right in a curve.
右转，左手向右划弧。

Sink, turn the body to the left, move both hands down to the left in a curve, rotate the left hand outward and the right hand inward.
下沉，左转，带双手向左下划弧，左手外旋，右手内旋。

Sink, rotate the right hand outward, turn the body slightly to the right, rotate the left hand inward.
下沉，右手外旋，微右转，左手内旋。

Stand up slightly and move the hands up.
人微起来带双手向上。

Sink, turn the left hand, palm up.
下沉，翻左手，掌心向上。

Sink, lift up the left forearm, turn the right foot outward, turn the body slightly to the right, meanwhile, move the right hand outward, close the left hand to the side of the left ear.
下沉，左小臂上抬，摆右脚，微右转。同时右手外摆，左手合于左耳旁。

Drop the left hand down, the back part of the left palm on the right wrist.
左掌下落，左掌根贴于右手腕。

Push the right hand with the left, turn the body to the right, turn the right toes outward, shift the weight center to the right.
左手推右手，身体右转，摆右脚尖，移重心到右腿。

Sink, turn the body to the right, lift the left foot landing beside the right foot, turn the right heel inward.
下沉，右转，提左腿上步点于右腿旁，右脚跟内收。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, draw the chest in, rotate both arms inward.
收腹，下沉，含胸，双臂内旋。

Continue to rotate both hands inward, sink, and lift up both elbows.
双手继续内旋，人下沉，双肘上提。

Lean forward, rotate and turn both hands.
前倾，双手外旋翻掌。

Sink, drop both hands down.
下沉，带双手下落。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, draw the chest in, rotate both arms inward.
收腹，下沉，含胸，双臂内旋。

Continue to rotate both hands inward, sink, and lift up both elbows.
双手继续内旋，人下沉，双肘上提。

Lean forward, rotate and turn both hands.
前倾，双手外旋翻掌。

Sink, close both hands to the chest and lift up the left foot at the same time. 
下沉，双手合于胸口，同时提左腿。

Kick with the left heel to the left, and part both hands at the same time.
左脚跟用力向左蹬出，同时双手向两侧打开。

16. 左右野马分鬃 Zuo You Ye Ma Fen Zong
Sink, land the left foot.
下沉，收左脚点地。

Sink, close both hands before the hips.
下沉，双手内收于双跨前。

Draw the abdomen in and sink, rotate both hands inward, chest in, part elbows.
收腹下沉，两手内旋，含胸，两肘打开。

Turn the body slightly to the right, thread the left hand down, and lift up the right hand.
微右转，左手下穿，右手上提。

Sink, thread the left hand down and lift it up, turn the body to the right, shift the weight center to the left, meanwhile move the right hand backward.
下沉，左手下穿上提，右转，移重心到左腿同时右手向后抽。

Sink, push the right hand out, continue to sink, rotate both hands outward, relax the shoulders and elbows and turn the hands.
下沉，右手外推，继续下沉，双手外旋，松肩，松肘，翻掌。

Move the right hip in, sink, rotate the right arm inward, right palm facing forward.
收右胯，下沉，带右手臂内旋至掌心向前。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, draw the right foot in, drop the right hand; close the left forearm toward the body.
下沉，微左转，收右腿右手下落；左小臂内收。

Sink, expand the chest, rotate the right hand outward slightly and close the left forearm toward the body.
下沉，开胸，右手微外旋左小臂内收。

Sink, lift the right foot and step to the right, cross both hands at the inner side of the right knee.
下沉，提右腿向右铲出，双手合于右膝内侧。

Sink, turn the body to the left, shift the weight center to the right, turn the left heel inward, move both hands to the front of the left hip.
下沉 ，左转，移重心到右腿，左脚跟内收，带两手于左胯前。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, rotate the left hand inward and push aside, part the hands, sink.
下沉，微右转，左手内旋外撑，右手臂外旋，双手拉开，下沉。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, turn the left hand, palm up.
下沉，微左转，翻左手掌心向上。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, draw the chest in, rotate both hands inward, continue to turn the body to the right, move the left hand to the right.
下沉，微右转，含胸，双手内旋翻掌，继续右转，左手找右手。

Sink, drop both hands down.
下沉，带双手下落。

Turn the body slightly to the right, rotate the left hand inward, shift the weight center to the left.
微右转，左手微内旋，移重心到左腿

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, body back to the front, move the hands to the left.
下沉，微左转，身体回正，带双手向左。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, turn the right hand, palm facing forward.
下沉，微右转，翻右手，掌心向前。

Sink and raise the hands, ward off to the left of the front.
上下对开，双手向左前方掤出。

Sink and raise the hands, relax the left shoulder and elbow, turn both hands.
上下对开，左手松肩、松肘，双手翻掌。

Sink, turn the right toes outward, turn both hands, turn the body to the right.
下沉，摆右脚尖，双手翻掌，右转。

Continue to turn the body to the right, shift the weight center to the right, turn the left heel outward.
继续右转，移重心到右腿，左脚跟外摆。

Lift the left leg and step forward to the side of the right foot, ward off to the right of the front.
提左腿上步，左脚点于右脚旁，双手掤于右前方。

Sink, turn the body to the right, close the left hand to the right, lift the left foot and step to the left, push the right hand out.
下沉，右转，左手向右里合，提左腿向左铲出，右手外推。

Sink, turn the right toes outward, turn the body to the right, shift the weight center to the left, rotate the left hand outward and drop it down before the right hip.
下沉，摆右脚尖，右转，移重心至左腿，左手外旋，下落于右胯前。

Sink, turn the body slightly to the left, rotate the left arm outward, part the hands, sink.
下沉，微左转，左手臂外旋，双手拉开，下沉。

17.玉女穿梭

Sink, turn the body slightly to the right, rotate the left forearm inward, and the right hand outward, turn the body back to the front and the right palm up, left hand upright before the chest.
下沉，身体微右转，左小臂内旋，右手外旋，身体回正，右手翻掌向上，左手立于胸前。

Continue to sink, drop the left hand down.
继续下沉，带左手下落。

Turn the body to the left, turn the left toes outward, rotate the left hand inward and drop it down, turn the right heel outward, rotate the right hand inward, palm back.
左转，摆左脚尖，左手内旋下落，右脚跟外摆，右手内旋，翻掌。

Sink, turn the body to the left, turn the left toes outward 45 degree, lift the right foot and step forward, move the right hand before the right hip, drop the left hand at the inner part of the left thigh.
下沉，左转，摆左脚尖45°，提右腿上步，带右手向前于右胯前，左手落于左大腿内侧。

Sink, drop the right hand, turn the body to the left, turn the left hand, palm facing front.
下沉，右手下落，左转，翻左手，掌心向前。

Turn the body to the right, move both hands to the left, up and forward in a curve, hands upright before the chest.
右转，双手向左、向上、向前划弧，双手立于胸前。

Sink, push forward with the right palm, draw the left hand close to the left chest.
下沉，右掌前推，收左掌落于左胸前。

Sink, shift the weight center to the right.
下沉，移重心到右腿。

Lift the left foot and step forward, push with the left palm, turn the body back to the front, hit backward with the right elbow.
提左脚上步，推左掌，身体回正，右肘向右击出。

Lift the right foot and land it behind the left foot, turn the body to the front, turn the body with the left heel as the center, move the right hand backward. 
提右脚向左脚后方插步，身体右转，以左脚跟为轴转身，右手变抽。

Sink, turn the body to the right and move the right hand backward.
下沉，身体右转，右手向后抽。

18.金刚捣碓Jin Gang Dao Dui

Sink, body turn left, right hand push back to the right. 
下沉，身体左转，右手向右后方推掌。

Rotate the right hand, relax the shoulder, elbow, and palm to the front and move it in a curve at the side of the right thigh, lift the right foot and step forward, move the right hand forward, close the left hand at the lower part of the upper arm.

外旋，松肩、松肘至掌心向前划弧贴于右大腿外侧，提右脚上步，带右手向前，左手合于右大臂下方。

Sink, lift the right forearm up.
下沉，右小臂向上抬。

Lean forward, turn the left palm up close to the body, and move the right hand toward the body.
微前倾，左手贴身，翻掌至掌心向上，右手微里合。

Sink, relax both hands down and draw back the right foot.
下沉，双手放松下落，收右脚。

Lift the right knee, lift up the right fist.
提右膝，右手由掌变拳上提。

Stomp the foot and punch.
震脚砸拳。

19. 收势 Shou Shi

Sink, part the hand aside, palms facing each other.
人下沉，双手向身体两侧拉开，掌心相对。

Stand up, move the hands aside to shoulder height, palms down.
人起来，双手向两侧拉至肩平，掌心向下。

Sink, turn the hands, palms up, move them above the top of the head in a curve, palms facing each other.
人下沉，双手翻掌心向上，划弧至头顶，掌心相对。

Continue to sink, relax the shoulders and elbows, expand the chest, part the elbows aside, fingers pointing each other before the chest. 
继续下沉，松肩，松肘，开胸，两肘向两侧打开，双手指尖相对至胸前。

Continue to sink press both hands down, stand up, continue to press the hands before the abdomen.
继续下沉带双手下按，人起来，双手继续向下按至腹前。

Draw the abdomen in, sink, drop the hands down, palms facing back, expand the chest, part the hands aside.
收腹，下沉，双手下落至掌心向里，胸腔膨胀，双手向两侧拉开。

Shift the weight center to the right, sink, chest in, move the hands forward in a curve, relax and close the hands slowly to the abdomen.
移重心到右腿，下沉，含胸，双手向前划弧，收左脚，放松，两手慢慢收拢至小腹部。

Stand up slowly, move the hands naturally at the sides and relax.
人慢慢站起来，双手自然回于身体两侧放松。

