易太极十三式口诀
1. Beginning Form 起势

Keep feet close together，hands beside thighs.
双腿并立，双手放在双腿两侧。

Move weight to the right foot and sink slowly， lift left knee slowly and step to the left，toes touch the ground，and then the whole foot.
重心到右腿慢慢往下沉，左腿左膝领劲慢慢往上提，向左横开一步，点地，踏实。

Move weight to the middle.
移重心到中间。

Draw abdomen in and sink.
收腹下沉。

Draw chest in and twist arms inward until the hand back to the front， in front of the thighs.
含胸，带双臂内旋，至掌背向前，位于大腿前方。

Continue sink and both hands go downward until they reach the knees.
继续下沉，双手指向下穿，至膝前。

Draw abdomen in and sink， raise both hands slowly in front of the body， shoulder height， and shoulder-width distance.
收腹下沉，双手在身体前方慢慢往上提，与肩同宽，提至与肩同高。

Sink，relax shoulders，elbows and hands.
下沉，松肩，松肘，松手。

Continue sink，and bring hands slowly down in front of the abdomen.
继续下沉，带双手慢慢向下落于小腹前。

2.Ye Ma Fen Zong on right右野马分鬃

Draw abdomen in and sink，chest in，twist arms inwards and hands back to back.
收腹下沉，含胸，双手内旋至掌背相对。

Turn slightly to the right，left hand goes down to the front of the knee，and right hand goes up to shoulder height.
微右转，左手往左膝前下穿，右手往上抬至与肩同高。

Sink and turn right,move weight to the left; right hand goes backward and left hand goes forward.
下沉右转，移重心到左腿；右手向后抽，左手向前穿。

Sink,twist hands outward,relax shoulders,elbows and hands.
下沉，双手外旋，松肩、松肘、松手。
	
Sink,turn slightly left,and lift right foot,meanwhile turn right hand,(palm to the front)， at the side of the thighs. Bend left arm， until fingers 45 degree to the right.
人下沉，微左转，提右腿，同时翻右掌心向前，于大腿外侧。左小臂微内收，至左掌指尖向右前方45°。

Sink and step to the right，cross hands before right knee.
下沉，右腿向右铲出，双手合于右前方。

Sink，turn left and move weight to the right leg.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿。

Turn slightly to the right，twist left hand，part hands and sink.
微右转，左手内旋，双手拉开，下沉。

3. Bei Zhe Kao 背折靠
Sink，turn left，left hand fist
下沉微左转，左手变拳。

Sink，right hand fist，turn right and move body weight to the left， left hand in front of the right shoulder. Right fist on the right knee，face upward.
下沉，右手变拳，右转移重心到左腿，左手随身体右转向右前划弧至右肩前。右拳拳心向上，下落于右膝上方。

Turn left and move weight to the right foot，twist right hand inward. Left fist down to the right ribs.
左转移重心到右腿，以右拳面为支点内旋。左拳下落于右肋处。

Turn slightly to the left，twist right fist，lift it and hit inside，and left fist down to the abdomen.
微左转，右拳内旋上提外摆，向内击出，左拳下落于腹前。

Sink，twist right fist，relax shoulder，elbow until right fist face to the left.
下沉，右手外旋，松肩、松肘至右拳心向左。

Move weight to the left，left fist at the left part of the abdomen，continue to twist right fist until it faces upward and stops at the middle of the body.
移重心到左腿，左拳在左小腹前，右手继续外旋至拳心向上，到身体前中线。

Sink and turn left，move weight to the right，right fist to the left crotch，left fist goes back to the left side of the waist.
下沉左转移重心到右腿，右拳到左胯前，左拳后拉到左腰上。

Turn slightly to the right，twist right hand inward，elbow goes to the right，and left elbow goes inward.
微右转，右手内旋，右肘拉开，左肘里折。

4.Yun Shou 云手

Relax and sink，fist open and left goes down to the inner part of the left thigh and right hand pushes.
放松下沉，左拳变掌下落于左大腿内侧，右拳变掌微前推。

Sink， turn right and move weight to the left， left hand goes up and right hand goes down.
下沉右转移重心到左腿，两手一上一下划弧。

Sink and turn hands.
下沉，翻掌。

Turn left.
左转。

Hands push to the left，meanwhile lift right foot at the back of the left foot
双手向左击出，同时右腿向左脚后方插步，手到脚到。

Move weight to the right foot, meanwhile hands draw arc, one up and one down.
移重心到右腿，同时两手一上一下划弧。

Sink and turn hands
下沉，翻掌。

Turn right
右转。

Sink，hands push to the right， meanwhile lift left foot to the left
下沉，左腿向左撤步，同时双手向右击出。

Keep weight on the left and step to the right 
重心在左腿，右脚向右横开一大步。

Sink，turn left and move weight to the right，then right hand is brought in front of the left crotch.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，带右手至左胯前。

Turn slightly to the right，lift right forearm and left forearm down to the inner part of the left knee
收右胯，微右转，右小臂上抬，左小臂下落于左膝内侧，掌背向前。

Sink，turn slightly to the right. Turn right hand to 45degree downward and turn left hand till palm to the right
下沉，微右转，翻右掌至斜下45°，左手掌心向右。

Continue to turn right, turn right palm to the outside and left palm to right 45degree
继续右转，翻掌至右掌心向外，左掌心向右前方45º。

Sink, turn right and move weight to the left,left hand goes up and hands together to the right
下沉右转移重心到左腿，左手向上划弧，双手合于右前方。

Body down and hand up,lift left forearm
上下对开，收左小臂。

Turn left hand to 45 degrees.
左手翻掌至掌心向斜下45°。

Push left hand with right hand，until palm to the outside
右手按左手至左掌心向外。

Turn slightly to the left，push right hand，and separate both hands，twist outward and sink. 
微左转，右手向外撑，双手拉开，微外旋，下沉。

5.You Deng Yi Gen 右蹬一根

Draw right foot in，meanwhile hands in front of the abdomen，palm to the back.
收右脚，同时双手合于腹前，掌心向内。

Sink，twist both hands inward and upward.
人下沉，双手内旋向里向上翻。

Sink，bring hands down.
下沉，带两手下落。

Upper body slightly up.
上身微起，胸腔膨胀。

Sink，draw chest in，twist both hands inward and upward.
人下沉，含胸，两手内旋向里向上翻。

Sink，hands in front of the chest，meanwhile lift right foot.
下沉，双手合于胸口，同时提右腿。

Kick with the right heel，meanwhile push hands to the sides.
右脚后跟用力向右蹬出，同时双手向两侧打开。

6.Yan Shou Gong Quan 掩手肱拳

Shake the right foot， lift the left foot and step to the left back 45degree， meanwhile hands press to the abdomen(left hand upon right fist).
震右脚，左腿向后45°撤步，同时右手变拳，左手变掌，从上方相合，下按于小腹前。

Turn slightly right，move weight to the left，then turn slightly left and twist both hands， separate.
微右转，移重心到左腿，微左转双手搓开。

Withdraw right crotch，turn left fingers downwards，twist right fist in front of the right chest， keep hands forearm’s distance.
收右胯，左手指领劲下旋，右拳里合，左手手指向下，右拳拳心向下合于右胸前，两手之间相距约一小臂宽。

Lean body slightly forward，draw left elbow inward.
人微前倾，左肘里合。

Body go back，turn the left fingers and point to the right.
身体回正，左手指领劲，旋向指尖向右。

Left hand pushes to the right fist，both hands upon the inner part of the right thing.
左掌外推，与右拳合于右腿里侧上方。

Sink，turn right，part the left hand and right fist.
下沉右转，左掌右拳前后拉开。

Sink，relax the right fist until it faces to the right,  meanwhile lift left hand.
下沉，右拳放松外旋至拳心向右，同时左手继续上抬。

Sink， withdraw right fist， relax left shoulder，elbow， hand 45degree down toward the ground.
下沉，收右拳，左手外旋松肩肘，至手掌斜下45°。

Sink， turn left and move weight to the right foot，continue to twist left hand till palm faces right.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，左手继续外旋至掌心向右。

Continue to turn left，withdraw left elbow till palm faces 45degree upon the ground， right fist goes forward and faces up.
继续左转，收左肘至手掌心斜向上45°，微顶右拳，拳心向上。

Sink and turn right，withdraw right fist to the waist，meanwhile left hand goes forward.
下沉，右转，右拳收于右腰间，同时穿左掌。

Move weight to the left，turn right，twist right fist and punch， meanwhile left elbow goes back with left fist.
移重心到左腿，左转，右拳内旋打出，同时左掌变拳左肘向后击出。

7. Xiao Qin Da 小擒打
Sink， move weight to the right， meanwhile hands open the fists， turn slightly right and part the hand，left hand down and right hand up.
下沉，移重心到右腿，同时双拳变掌微右转，左下右上拉开。

Sink，relax right shoulder and elbow.
下沉，右手松肩，松肘。

Sink， turn right and turn right hand till palm to the outside， meanwhile， left hand down to the inner part of the left knee.
下沉，右转翻右掌心朝外，同时左掌下落于左膝内侧。

Continue to turn right and move weight to the left，twist left arm till palm to the outside and fingers go forward upon the left knee， right hand goes backward.
继续右转，移重心到左腿，左臂内旋至掌心向外于膝盖上方穿掌，右手向后抽。

Twist both hands，relax shoulders，elbows till left palm down and right palm up.
双手外旋，松肩、松肘，至左手掌心向下，右手掌心向上。

Withdraw right foot， right hand down to the outside of the right knee， palm to the front.
收右腿，右手下落于右腿外侧，掌心向前。

Lift right foot and step to the front，with the right hand to the front，cross hands upon the right leg.
提右腿上步，带右手向前，两手合于右腿上方。

Sink，lift right forearm，and left elbow down.
上下对开，右小臂上抬，左肘下沉。

Turn right palm.
翻右掌。

Push the right arm with left hand，turn right foot outward.
左手推右手臂，摆右脚。

Move weight to the right.
移重心到右腿。

Sink and withdraw left foot.
下沉收左腿。

Lift left foot and step to the left.
提左腿向左铲出。

Sink， drop the left hand to the inner part of the right knee，palm pack.
下沉，左手下落于右膝内侧，掌心向后。

Turn slightly left and bring the left hand to the inner part of the left knee.
微左转，把左手带到左膝内侧。

Sink and turn right，withdraw right forearm，and goes back. Twist the left arm.
下沉右转，右小臂内收，向后抽。左臂内旋。

Move weight to the left when turning right.
随右转，移重心到左腿。

Turn body back，twist right hand outward and drop it to the middle of the body.
身体回正，右手外旋下落到身体中线。

Turn left and move weight to the right，right hand in front of the left crotch.
左转，移重心到右腿，右手到左胯前。

Turn slightly right，twist right hand inward， and lift right elbow，left hand pushes.
微右转，右手内旋，右肘领劲向上提，左手往下撑。

Kick with right foot，push right hand to the inner part of the left knee，left elbow goes back.
蹬右脚，右掌往左膝内侧下击，左肘往后击出。

8.Ru Feng Si Bi 如封似闭

Sink，turn slightly right and move weight to the right， press with the left hand to the left knee，right hand press to the middle of the body.
下沉，微右转移重心到右腿，左掌下按于左膝盖上方，右掌下按于裆前。

Turn right and hands turn to fists， twist right fist to the outside on the right leg， palm up， left hand in front of the body.
身体右转，同时双手变拳，右拳向外旋至右腿上方，拳心向上，左拳随右转向右到身体前方。

Continue to sink， turn right and move weight to the left， twist right hand till it’s beside the right knee.
继续下沉，右转，移重心到左腿，右拳旋至右膝外侧。

Draw right arm， right fist to the side of the right ear，drop left fist to the front of the right crotch.
收右臂，右拳合于右耳旁，左拳下落于右胯前。

Turn slightly left， twist right fist and it goes downward， drop left fist to the front of the abdomen.
微左转，右拳内旋领劲变向下栽拳，左拳下落于小腹前。

Withdraw right foot，and point to the ground，right fist goes downward.
收右脚，向右前点地，右拳向下栽。

Sink，turn slightly right.
人下沉，微右转。

Body goes up right with hands still touch the knee.
以左拳面为支撑点，把身体撑起。

Body goes back， twist hands outward，palms up and cross them in front of the lower part of the right chest.
上身回正，两手外旋上翻，变双掌心向上，交叉于右胸下方。

Sink，hands go forward，meanwhile step to the right.
下沉，双手微前伸，同时开右脚。

Sink，turn left and move weight to the right，open the arms.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，双手拉开。

Shrink the abdomen and sink，chest in，meanwhile twist hands behind the ears.
收腹，下沉，含胸，同时双手向内旋合于双耳后方。

Twist both hands slightly inward，turn right.
双手微内旋，身体右转。

Bring the left foot to the side of the right foot，meanwhile press with both hands， left hand upon the inner part of the right thigh and right hand upon the outer part of the right thigh.
带左脚上步于右脚旁，同时双手下按，左手在右大腿内侧，右手在右大腿外侧。

9. Dan Bian 单鞭
Sink，relax shoulders and elbows，turn right，twist both hands outward，draw right hand toward the body and left hand goes forward away from the body.
下沉，松肩，松肘，右转，双手外旋翻掌，右手内收，左掌外穿。

Turn left， draw right hand to the body，twist left hand outward upon the front of the right knee.
身体左转，右手向身体里合，左手外旋掌心向上合于右膝前上方。

Draw right crotch in， right hand becomes hook and twist inward， lift it up(the same direction like the right toes)，left palm to the abdomen.
收右胯，右手变勾微内旋，往右脚尖方向提，左掌里合于小腹前。

Lift left foot and step to the left.
提左腿，向左开步。

Sink，turn right and move weight to the left. 
下沉，右转移重心到左腿。

Turn left and draw the left hand till left fingers pointing forward. Meanwhile turn right toes inward.
左转，左手随左移，往左拉开至左手手指向前，同时勾右脚尖。

Sink，move weight to the right,  left hand goes through to the abdomen.
下沉，移重心到右腿，左手向右穿掌至小腹前。

Move weight to the left， meanwhile left hand goes to the right hand.
移重心到左腿，同时左掌继续往右手方向穿。

Sink,turn left palm till it faces to the front.
下沉，翻左掌到掌心向前。

Turn slightly left and part the left hand, slight twist left hand, sink.
微左转拉开，左手臂微外旋，下沉。

10.Que Di Long 雀地龙

Sink, turn slightly right, hands change to fists, left hand to the front of the left shoulder, drop the right fist to the inner part of the right thigh.
下沉，微右转，双手变拳外旋。左手里合于左肩前，右拳下落于右大腿内侧。

Sink turn left and move weight to the right， bring the right fist to the front of the left crotch.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，带右拳到左胯前。

Sink，twist both arms inward，and part them left fist down and right fist up.
下蹲，双臂内旋，双拳左下右上拉开。

11.Tui Bu Kua Hu退步跨虎
Kick with the right foot， left hand goes forward along the left knee， turn slightly right and twist it till it faces down， upon the right leg.
蹬右腿，左拳向左膝正前方冲拳，微右转右拳内旋至拳心向下，位于右腿上方。

Sink， turn left， withdraw the right foot and step forward， right fist under the left fist.
下沉，左转，带右腿向左上步，右拳随上步划弧合于左拳下方。

Sink， draw fists upward and inward.
人下沉，双拳向上向里合。

draw the chest in， twist both fists inward and turn out side， in front of the chest.
含胸，双拳内旋外翻变掌合于胸前。

Push forward.
向前击出。

Sink with hands down， twist them and lift up till the front of the face， meanwhile lift right knee and turn around to 90 degree.
下沉，带双手下落，内旋上提至面部前方，同时提右膝右转90°。

Shake the right foot， meanwhile drop both hands to the abdomen.
震脚，同时双手落于小腹前。

12. Jin Gang Dao Dui 金刚捣碓
Shrink the abdomen and sink, chest in, twist both arms inward and turn the hands， lift the right foot and step to the back.
收腹下沉，含胸，双臂内旋翻掌，提右脚往后撤步。

Turn right and move weight to the left, twist left hand, draw both hands to the right part of the body.
右转，移重心到右腿，左手外旋，带双手到身体右前方。

Turn slightly left and draw the left hand to the left knee.
微左转，带左手内旋到左膝上方。

Sink and turn the left palm up on the left knee.
下沉，翻左掌心向上，落在左膝上方。

Lift the left palm, turn slightly right and draw the left hand to the middle of the body.
左掌上抬，微右转带左掌到身体前中线。

Sink and hands go up，turn right，twist left hand inward till palm 45degree，pointing to the right front，and right hand goes back.
上下对开，右转，左手内旋至掌心斜向45º，指尖向右前方，右手向后抽。

Sink , twist left hand inward and right hand outward and palms down.
下沉，左手内旋、右手外旋翻掌向下。

Sink, draw both hand down and press.
人下沉，带双手下按。

Turn slightly right and move weight to the left, turn left, body back and relax.
微右转，移重心到左腿，身体左转，至身体回正时放松下沉。

Shrink the abdomen and sink, chest in, part the elbows.
收腹下沉，含胸，双肘微打开。

Open the hands slightly, relax, and continue to open the hands with left palm down and right palm up.
双手微打开，放松，双手继续向两侧打开，左手掌心向下，右手掌心向上。

Turn left and turn left foot， lift right foot and step to the front， bring the right hand to the front and 
left hand touch the lower part of the the upper arm.
左转，摆左脚尖，提右腿上步，带右手向前，左手合于右大臂下方。

Sink, and lift the right forearm.
下沉，右手小臂向上抬。

Continue to sink, relax both hands and drop them, meanwhile turn the left hand to the abdomen and drop the right hand to the right knee.
继续下沉，双手放松向下落，同时左手贴身翻掌，掌心向上落于小腹前，右手向下落于右膝上方。

Lift the right knee, and the right fist.
提右膝，右手变拳上提。

Shake the right foot, meanwhile punch the right fist to the left hand.
震脚，同时右手砸拳于左掌心。

13.Closing Form 收势

Sink, part both hands to the side, palm inward.
下沉，双手向身体两侧拉开，掌心向里。

Stand up, draw hands to shoulder height. Palms down.
人起来，双手拉至肩平，掌心向下。

Sink, turn hands up and draw them up till palms face each other over the head.
人下沉，双手翻掌心向上，划弧至头顶，掌心相对。

Continue to sink, and press the hands down to the chest.
继续下沉，双手下按至胸前。

Slightly stand up, and press the hands to the abdomen.
Part the hands to the side, move weight to the right, sink and relax, hands go forward in an arc and back to the abdomen, meanwhile withdraw the left foot.
双手向两侧拉开，移重心到右腿，下沉放松，双手往前下方划弧，收拢至下腹部，同时收左腿。

Stand with feet close together, and draw hands back to the side of the body.
双脚并拢，双手自然回于身体两侧。