易太极五式口诀

1.Beginning Form（起势）
Stand with feet together. Hands beside with thighs. 
双腿并立，双手在身体两侧。
Move weight to right leg. 
重心到右腿。
Slowly bend right knee. Meanwhile slowly lift left knee, and step to the left, toes touching ground, then heel down. 
右腿慢慢往下沉，左膝领劲，慢慢往上提，向坐横开一步，点地，踏实。
Shift weight to center.
移重心到中间。
Draw abdomen in and sink your body.
收腹,下沉。
Then draw chest in. Twist arms inward until hand backs face front. 
含胸，双臂内旋至掌背向前。
Keep sinking until your hands in front of the knees.
继续下沉，双手向膝下穿掌。
Draw abdomen in, sink, and slowly lift hands at shoulder level with shoulder-width.
收腹，下沉，双手慢慢往上提，提至与肩同高，与肩同宽。
Sink, relax shoulders, elbows, and hands. 
下沉，松肩，松肘，松手。
Keep sinking. Hands slowly fall to the thighs.
继续下沉，带双手下落。
2.Shang San Bu/Three Steps Forward （上三步）
Sink the body, turn right slightly, twist left hand inward and right hand outward, move weight to the left leg.
下沉、微右转，左手内旋，右手外旋，移重心到左腿。
Keep sinking, turn left slightly, swing the toes of left foot 90 degrees, meanwhile keep twisting left hand inward and twisting right hand outward, draw a arc to the right upward until hands at shoulder level.
继续下沉,身体微左转摆左脚尖90º,同时左手继续内旋，右手继续外旋，往右上方划弧,划到与肩同高。
Turn left slightly, right leg one step forward, both hand push down.
微左转,提右腿上步,双手下打。
Sink the body, turn left slightly, twist right hand inward and twist left hand outward, move weight to right leg.
下沉，微左转，右手内旋，左手外旋，移重心到右腿。
Keep sinking, turn left slightly, meanwhile keep twisting right hand inward and twisting left hand outward, draw an arc to the left upward until hands at shoulder level.
继续下沉,身体微右转,同时右手继续内旋，左手继续外旋往左上方划弧,划到与肩同高。
Turn right slightly, left leg one step forward, both hand push down.微右转,提左腿上步,双手下打。
3.Ye Ma Fen Zong （野马分鬃）
Draw abdomen in, sink. Draw chest in, and twist arms inward until hand backs face each other. 
收腹下沉，双手贴大腿向上提，落于双胯前。
Draw chest in, two elbows open to the both sides of the body.
含胸，两肘向身体两侧打开。
Put right foot next step, meanwhile the body being forward. Both hands palm backward and open to the both sides of the body, then hands rotating forward arc. Relax, hands swing, wrists together in front of the body, meanwhile left tiptoes turn to 45 degrees.
提右脚往后撤步，同时身体前倾，双手掌心向后, 向两侧打开，双手内旋向前划弧，放松，双手外旋，双腕相合于体前，同时勾左脚尖。
Body goes back to be straight.
上身回正。
Turn right, hands down inside the right knee about 10 cm. Weight is on left leg.
身体右转，带双手落于右膝内侧约10cm处，重心在左腿。
Sink, turn left, and move weight to right leg.
下沉左转移重心到右腿。
Slightly turn right, twist left hand inward, separate hands and sink. 
微右转，左手内旋，双手拉开，下沉。
Sink, and slightly turn left, twist left palm upward, palm facing up.
下沉，微左转，左手翻掌于左膝上，掌心向上。
Turn right, twist both hands inward, left hand goes for right hand, palm facing down. 
右转，双手同时内旋翻掌，左手找右手，掌心向下。
Sink, and bring hands down. 
下沉，带双手下落。
Slightly turn right, slightly twist left hand inward, move weight to left leg.
微右转，左手微内旋，移重心到左腿。
Slightly turn left, and body goes back to center, bring left hand to inside left knee and right hand to center line of body, palm facing left, fingers pointing down. 
微左转身体回正，带左手在左膝内侧，右手在身体前中线，手心向左，指尖向下。
Sink, and turn right hand, palm facing front.
下沉翻右掌，掌心向前。
Sink and ward off to left front.
上下对开，双手向左前方掤出。
Sink, and raise hands, twist both hands until palms facing each other, swing right toes. 
上下对开，双手翻掌，至掌心相对，摆右脚尖。
Keep turning right, move weight to right leg, meanwhile keep twisting both hands until right palm facing outward, and left palm facing upward.
继续右转移重心到右腿，同时双手继续翻掌，至右手掌心向外，左手掌心向上。
Left foot goes one step forward, and toes touch ground, inside right leg. Bring both hands to right front.
提左腿上步。左脚点于右脚内侧、双手掤于右前方。
Sink, and turn right, step to the left, left hand stop ate 10cm under right armpit. 
下沉右转，左腿铲出，左手落于右腋下方10cm左右。
Sink, turn right, and move weight to left leg, twist left hand outward to the front of right crotch.
下沉，右转，移重心到左腿，左手外旋下落于右胯前。
Slightly turn left, twist right hand inward, and separate hands, left palm is flat and face upwards, outside and above left knee, slightly higher than shoulder. Right hand faces outward and falls to 15cm away from inside right knee. 
微左转，右手内旋，双手拉开，左掌心平向上在左膝外侧上方略高于肩，右掌打开落于右膝内侧15cm处。
Sink, turn right slightly, twist right palm upward on the right knee, turn left slightly, twist left arm inward until the left palm standing on the front of the chest.
下沉，身体微右转，右手翻掌向上落于右膝，微左转，左手臂内旋带左手立于胸前。
Keep sinking, turn left, swing the toes of left foot, left palm touch left knee, twist right hand inward and palm faces back.
继续下沉，左转，摆左脚尖，左手放松落于膝盖,右手内旋翻掌，掌心向后。
Keep turning left, step right foot forward, left hand on the front of the crotch, right hand lies on the inner side of right thigh.
继续左转，提右腿上步，左手落于右胯前，右手落在左大腿内侧。
Sink, turn left, twist left hand facing outward.
下沉，左转，翻左手掌心向前。
Turn right, bring both hand stand on the front of the chest.
右转、带双手向上、向前、划弧，双手立于胸前。
Sink, left palm falls on the front of the left chest.
下沉，左掌落于左胸前。
Sink, move weight to right foot.
下沉，移重心到右腿。
Step left foot forward, meanwhile pushing right palm.
上左脚，同时推左掌。
Turn right, bring left hand cover with right elbow’s joint.
右转左手合于右大臂下方。
4.Jin Gang Dao Zhui（金刚捣碓）
Sink, lift right forearm.
下沉，右小臂向上抬。
Keep sinking, hands relax and fall, meanwhile, turn left palm upward and falls to the front of  lower abdomen, and right hand falls to top of right knee.
继续下沉，双手放松向下落，同时左手贴身翻掌，掌心向上落于小腹前，右手向下落于右膝上方。
Lift right knee, right palm turns into fist, and lift right fist.
提右膝，右手由掌变拳上提。
Right foot hits ground, meanwhile right fist hits left palm.
震脚同时右拳砸于左掌心。
5.Closing（收式）
Sink the body and meanwhile opening both hands to the body side.
下沉，同时双手向身体两侧拉开。
Keep sinking, open the palm to the same height with shoulder.
继续下沉，双手拉至肩平。
Sink, turn palms upward, and draw arcs to above head, palms facing each other.
人下沉，双手翻掌心向上，划弧至头顶，掌心相对。
Keep sinking, both hand press down to the front of the chest meanwhile fingers facing each other.
人下沉，双手指尖相对，下按至胸前。
Standing slightly, keep pressing hands to the front of the abdomen.
人起来，双手继续下按至腹前。
Pull hands to body sides, move weight to right leg, sink, relax, hands draw arcs front down, bring hands back to abdomen, and bring left foot back.
双手向两侧拉开，移重心到右腿，下沉放松，双手往前下方划弧，收拢至下腹部，同时收左腿。
Stand with feet together, and hands naturally come back to sides.
双脚并拢，双手自然回于身体两侧。
