易太极八式口诀

1.Beginning Form（起势）
Stand with feet together，and hands fall beside thighs.
双腿并立，双手放在双腿两侧。
Move weight to the right foot and sink slowly， lift left knee slowly and step to the left，toes touch the ground， and then the whole foot.
重心到右腿，右腿慢慢往下沉，左腿左膝领劲慢慢往上提，向左横开一步，点地，踏实。
Move weight to the middle.
移重心到中间。
Abdomen in and sink.
收腹，下沉。
Chest in and twist arms inward until hands back to the front， in front of the thighs.
含胸，带双臂内旋，至掌背向前，位于大腿前方。
Continue sink and both hands go downward until reaching the knees.
继续下沉，双手指向下穿，至膝前。
Abdomen in and sink， raise both hands slowly in front of the body with shoulder height and shoulder-width.
收腹，下沉，双手在身体前方慢慢往上提，与肩同宽，提至与肩同高。
Sink，relax shoulders，elbows and hands.
下沉，松肩，松肘，松手。
Continue sink， and bring hands slowly down in front of the abdomen.
继续下沉，带双手慢慢向下落于小腹前。
2.Ye Ma Fen Zong on right（右野马分鬃）
Abdomen in and sink，chest in，twist arms inwards and hands back to back.
收腹，下沉，含胸，双手内旋至掌背相对。
Turn slightly right，left hand goes down to the front of the knee，and right hand goes up to shoulder height.
微右转、左手往左膝前下穿，右手往上抬至与肩同高。
Sink and turn right， move weight to the left; right hand goes backward and left hand goes forward.
下沉，右转，重心移到左腿；右手向后抽，左手向前穿。
Sink，twist hands outward，relax shoulders，elbows and hands.
下沉，双手外旋，松肩、松肘、松手。
Sink，turn slightly left，and lift right foot，meanwhile turning right palm to the front at the side of the thighs. Bend left arm， until fingers 45 degrees to the right.
人下沉，微左转，提右腿，同时翻右掌心向前，于大腿外侧。左小臂微内收，至左掌指尖向右前方45°。
Sink and step to the right， cross hands before right crotch.
下沉，右腿向右铲出，双手合于右前方。
Sink， turn left and move weight to the right leg.
下沉左转移重心到右腿。
Turn slightly right， twist left hand， part hands and sink.
微右转，左手内旋，双手拉开，下沉。
Sink, and slightly turn left. Twist left palm upward, on left knee.
下沉，微左转，左手翻掌于左膝上，掌心向上。
Turn right, twist both hands inward, left hand goes for right hand, palms face down. 
右转，双手同时内旋翻掌，左手找右手，掌心向下。
Sink, and bring hands down. 
下沉，带双手下落。
Slightly turn right, slightly twist left hand inward, move weight to left leg.
微右转，左手微内旋，重心移到左腿。
Slightly turn left, and body goes back to center with left hand inside left knee and right hand on the center line of body, palms facing left, fingers pointing down. 
微左转身体回正，带左手在左膝内侧，右手在身体前中线，手心向左，指尖向下。
Sink, and turn right hand with palm facing front.
下沉翻右掌，掌心向前。
Sink and ward off to left front.
上下对开，双手向左前方掤出。
Sink, and raise hands, twist both hands until palms facing each other, swing right toes.
上下对开，双手翻掌，至掌心相对，摆右脚尖。
Keep turning right, move weight to right leg, meanwhile keep twisting both hands until right palm faces outward, and left palm faces upward.
继续右转移重心到右腿，同时双手继续翻掌，至右手掌心向外，左手掌心向上。
Left foot goes one step forward, and toes touch ground inside right leg with both hands being right front.
提左腿上步。左脚点于右脚内侧、双手掤于右前方。
Sink, and turn right. Step to the left. Left hand 10cm under right armpit. 
下沉,右转，左腿铲出，左手落于右腋下方10cm左右。
Sink, turn right, and move weight to left leg, twist left hand outward, and left hand to the front of right crotch.
下沉右转移重心到左腿，左手外旋下落于右胯前。
Slightly turn left, twist right hand inward and separate hands. Left hand is flat and face upwards, outside and above left knee, slightly higher than shoulder. Right hand falls to 15cm away from inside right knee, facing right, outward. 
微左转，右手内旋，双手拉开，左掌心平向上在左膝外侧上方略高于肩，右掌打开落于右膝内侧15cm处。
3.Da Ru Feng Si Bi（大如封似闭）
Sink, slightly turn left, meanwhile twisting right palm upward and twisting left forearm inward until palm faces down. 
人下沉微左转，同时翻右掌向上，左手小臂内旋至掌心向。
Slightly turn left. Left hand draws an arc inward until hand is slightly lower than elbow, and naturally bring right hand to body center line when turning left. Right palm faces left.
微左转，左手向内划圆弧至手掌比肘略低，右手随身体左转贴身体前面划到身体中线，掌心向左。
Sink, body goes back, then twist two hands to palm outward.
人下沉，身体回正，翻双手掌心向外。
Sink, two hands ward off to left front.
下沉，双手向左前方掤出。
Sink, and meanwhile raising hands, twist hands until palms face each other.
上下对开，翻掌，至掌心相对。
Sink, turn left, and move weight to right leg. Meanwhile, keep twisting both hands until right palm faces outward and left palm faces upward.
人下沉，左转，移重心到右腿，同时，双手继续翻掌，至右手掌心向外，左手掌心向上。
Turn right, hands stroking and bring right hand to inside and above right knee and left hand to body center.
右转，双手变捋，至右手位于右膝内侧上方，左手位于身体中线。
Sink, twist right palm down, and meanwhile moving weight to left leg. 
下沉，右转翻掌向下，同时移重心到左腿。
Keep sinking, turn left and hands squeeze out toward left, palms face left, and right hand is on the body center line.
继续下沉，左转带双手向左挤出，双手掌心向左，右手在身体中线。
Sink, twist right palm forward, and raise your right hand.
人下沉，翻右手掌向前，向上捧。
Sink, twist palms down, move weight to right leg, and meanwhile hands press down.
下沉，双手翻掌向下，移重心到右腿，同时双手向下按。
Slightly turn right, and twist left hand inward to body center line and twist right hand outward to the top of right thigh. 
微右转，左手内旋至身体中线，同时右手外旋至右腿上方。
Sink, turn right, move weight to left leg. Meanwhile, twist left arm inward until palm faces forward, and twist right arm outward until palm faces upward.
下沉，右转，移重心到左腿，同时左手臂内旋至掌心向前，右手臂外旋至掌心向上。
Draw abdomen in, sink, relax left hand and twist left hand outward, twist right hand inward, and lift right hand，store up strength.
收腹，下沉，左手放松外旋、右手内旋向上提，蓄劲。
Hands hit out. 
双手向前击出。
Sink, turn left and swing left toes outward. Meanwhile, hands draw arcs downward until right palm faces left, fingers forward and left palm faces back with shoulder height.
下沉，左转摆左脚尖，同时双手随身体左转向下划弧,至右手掌心向左，手指向前，左手掌心向后，与肩同高。
Keep turning left, left hand change to Diaoshou, and right hand falls to outside right thigh, right palm forward. 
继续左转，左手变刁手，右手落于大腿右侧，掌心向前。
Lift right leg and one step forward, right hand draw an arc and change to Tuoshou.
提右腿上步，右手划弧变托手。
Sink, and right sole touches ground.
下沉右脚掌点地。
Right foot goes one small step forward, heel then touches ground, firmly. 
右脚向前跨一小步，脚跟点地、踏实。
Sink, twist left hand outward, and relax shoulder, elbow and hand until left palm faces upward. Turn left, and meanwhile bring toes of right foot in at 45°. 
下沉，左手外旋松肩松肘松手，至掌心向上。左转同时勾右脚尖斜向45°。
Sink, keep turning left, and move weight to right leg. Open left hand, right hand goes forward and bring left heel in.
下沉，继续左转移重心到右腿，左手打开，右手向前穿掌，同时左脚跟内勾。
Draw abdomen in, sink, draw chest in, and meanwhile twist both hands inward, fold arms and hands reach behind ears. 
收腹，下沉，含胸、同时双手向内旋合于双耳后方。
Twist hands inward, and turn right. 
双手内旋，身体右转。
Bring left foot one step forward, and left foot falls beside right foot. Meanwhile hands push down. Left hand is inside right thigh and right hand is outside right thigh.
带左脚上步于右脚旁，同时双手下按，左手在右大腿内侧，右手在右大腿外侧。
4.Wave Hands（云手）
Sink, relax shoulders, and relax elbows. 
下沉，松肩，松肘。
Slightly turn left until body faces forward. Bring left heel inward until toes face front. Meanwhile, twist left hand outward and right hand inward, and separate hands vertically. 
微左转至身体回正，左脚跟收至脚尖向前，同时左手外旋，右手内旋，一上一下拉开。
Sink, lift left leg and left leg goes left one small step. 
下沉，提左腿向左开一小步。
Draw right crotch in, body forward slightly, and bring left hand to body center line.
收右胯，身体微前倾，带左手至身体中线。
Sink, move weight to left leg, twist left hand inward and right hand outward. Hands draw arcs simultaneously to a position where left palm faces body and right palm faces 45º lower right.
下沉，移重心到左腿，左手内旋，右手外旋，双手一上一下划弧，至左掌心向内，右掌心向右下45º。
Sink and turn hands.
下沉，翻掌。
Turn left.
左转。
Hands push to the left， meanwhile lifting right foot to the back of the left foot.
双手向左击出，同时右腿向左脚后方插步，手到脚到。
Move weight to the right foot meanwhile hands draw arcs simultaneously to a position.
移重心到右腿同时两手一上一下划弧。
Sink and turn hands.
下沉，翻掌。
Turn right.
右转。
Sink，hands push to the right，meanwhile lifting left foot to the left.
下沉，左腿向左撤步，同时双手向右击出。
Keep weight on the left and step to the right.
重心在左腿，右脚向右横开一大步。
Sink，turn left and move weight to the right with right hand in front of the left crotch.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，带右手至左胯前。
Turn slightly right，lift right forearm and left forearm down to the inner part of the left knee.
收右胯，微右转，右小臂上抬，左小臂下落于左膝内侧，掌背向前。
Sink，turn slightly right，and turn right hand to 45 degrees， and turn left hand and palm to the right.
下沉，微右转，翻右掌至斜下45°，左手掌心向右。
Continue to turn right， turn right palm to the outside and left palm to right 45 degrees.
继续右转，翻掌至右掌心向外，左掌心向右前方45º。
Sink， turn right and move weight to the left， left hand goes up and hands together to the right.
下沉右转移重心到左腿，左手向上划弧，双手合于右前方。
Body down and hand up，lift left forearm.
上下对开，收左小臂。
Turn left hand to 45 degrees.
左手翻掌至掌心向斜下45°。
Push left hand with right hand，until palm to the outside.
右手按左手至左掌心向外。
Turn slightly left, push right hand，and separate both hands，twist outward and sink. 
微左转，右手向外撑，双手拉开，微外旋，下沉。
5.Gao Tan Ma（高探马）
Keep turning left, and lift right foot one step forward.
身体继续左转，提右腿上步。
Sink, right foot step to the right with hands crossing at right front.
下沉，右腿向右铲出，双手合于右前方。
Sink, turn left and move weight to right leg. bring hands to inside left knee.
下沉，左转移重心到右腿，双手到左膝内侧。
Sink and raise right forearms a bit.
上下对开，右小臂向上抬。
Turn right hand until right palm faces 45°downward.
右手翻掌至掌心向斜下45°。
Left hand presses right hand until right palm faces outward.
左手按右手至右掌心向外。
Slightly turn right, left palm pushes out, separate hands, slightly twist hands outward and sink.
微右转，左手掌外撑，双手拉开，微外旋，下沉。
Sink, slightly turn left, and twist left hand outward until left palm faces upward.
下沉，微左转，左手外旋翻左掌向上。
Turn right, bring right hand down to outside right knee, and twist left hand inward, and left hand draws an arc to the front of right shoulder. 
右转带右手向下到膝外侧，左手内旋向右划弧至右肩前方。
Sink, slightly lean forward, turn right palm and right palm touches outside right thigh. 
下沉，人微前倾，翻右掌贴于大腿外侧。
Sink, left hand presses down to inside right knee, and draw right forearm behind right ear. 
人下沉，左手下按至右膝内侧，右手收小臂，合于右耳后。
Turn left, and twist left hand outward to body center line. 
左转,带左手外旋至身体中线。
Turn left and bring left leg back. Right hand pushes forward. Twist left hand, palm upward, stop at abdomen position. 
左转收左腿，右手向前方推出，左手翻掌，掌心向上，落于小腹前。
6.Zhuan Shen Bai Lian（转身摆莲）
Sink, twist right hand outward, relax shoulder, elbow until right palm faces left, meanwhile turning left hand until left palms faces body.
下沉，右手外旋松肩松肘至掌心向左，同时左手翻掌至掌心向内。
Sink, turn left, bring right crotch out. Keep twisting right hand outward and right hand falls in the front of right crotch, palm forward, left palm touches body and twist fingers downward.
下沉左转，右胯顶出，右手继续外旋落于右胯前方，掌心向前；左手掌心贴身体，
以掌根为轴，旋至指尖向下。
Draw right crotch in, and twist both hands inwards simultaneously until hand backs face each other.
收右胯，双手同时内旋至手背相对。
Sink, twist right hand inward until right elbow is up, and twist left hand inward until palm faces outward. 
下沉，右手内旋至肘起来，左手内旋至掌心向外。
Slightly turn right (body back to center), sink, and twist both hands outward simultaneously until palms are upward. 
微右转（身体回正），下沉，双手同时外旋至掌心向上。
Bring right crotch out. right hand falls.
顶右胯，右手下落。
Draw right crotch in, slightly turn right, sink, draw chest in, and slightly open elbows. 
收右胯，微右转，下沉，含胸，双肘微打开。
Sink and keep separating hands.
下沉，双手继续拉开。
Sink, turn right, and move weight to left leg, left hand touches right wrist at right front, and meanwhile swing right toes 45° outward. 
下沉，右转移重心到左腿，双手合于右前方，同时摆右脚尖45°。
Sink and raise arms, and draw right forearm in.
上下对开，收右小臂。
Twist right palm outward, and meanwhile swing right toes outward.
翻右掌向外,同时摆右脚尖。
Turn right with right heel as the center, move weight to right leg and lift left leg.
以右脚跟为轴向右转，移重心到右腿，提左腿。
Sink, and left foot step to the left.
下沉，左脚向左铲出。
Sink, and left hand falls to inside right knee.
下沉，左手掌心向内落于右膝内侧。
Slightly turn left, bring left hand to inside left knee, and right hand pushes out.
微左转，把左手带至左膝内侧，右手向外撑。
Sink, turn left palm up, touching top of left knee.
下沉，左手翻掌向上，贴于左膝上。
Turn right, move weight to left leg, turn left hand inward and draws an arc to the right, meanwhile twisting right hand outward until right palm faces downward. 
右转移重心到左腿，左手内旋向右划弧，同时右手外旋至掌心向下。
Sink, slightly turn left, hands press, and bring right leg back.
下沉，微左转，双手变按，收右腿。
Lift right leg and kick out toward left front.
提右腿，向左前踢出。
Wave right foot, right foot draws an arc upward and backward, and right instep hits sides of both hands. 
摆脚，右脚由前向上向后划弧，右脚背击于双手掌侧。
Body sinks as right foot falling, palms turn into fists, left fist palm upward and right fist palm downward in the front of body.
随右脚下落，身体下沉，双掌变拳左拳心向上，右拳心向下，落于身体前方。
Sink, twist right and twist left hand inward and right hand outward until fist palms face each other, draw to the right.
下沉右转，带左手内旋，右手外旋，至拳心相对，向右划。
Sink, twist left hand inward, twist right hand outward and lift right hand. Right fist lies above right thigh.
人下沉左手内旋，右手外旋上提。右拳位于右腿上方。
Turn left, fists draw arcs upward from right to left and knock out, fist palms facing each other. Meanwhile, right foot goes back one step, heel firmly down on ground. Fists and right foot arrive simultaneously.
左转双拳由右向上向左划弧打出，双拳心相对，同时右腿向后撤步，脚跟踏实，
注意手到脚到。
7.Jin Gang Dao Zhui（金刚捣碓）
Sink, fists turns into palms. Move weight to right leg and palms smooth out to the right until left palm reaches body center line.
下沉，双拳变掌平捋，同时移重心到右腿，左手捋到身体中线。
Sink and lift arms, turn right, twist left hand inward until left palm faces 45º upward, fingers pointing right front, and draw right hand back. 
上下对开，右转，左手内旋至掌心斜向45º，指尖向右前方，右手向后抽。
Sink, twist left hand inward and right hand outward until palms face downward. 
下沉，左手内旋、右手外旋翻掌向下。
Sink, both hands press down.
人下沉，带双手下按。
Turn slightly right and move weight to the left，turn left，body back and relax.
微右转移重心到左腿，身体左转，至身体回正时放松下沉。
Shrink the abdomen and sink，chest in，Separate the elbows.
收腹下沉，含胸，双肘微打开。
Open hands slightly，relax，and continue to open hands with left palm down and right palm up.
双手微打开，放松，双手继续向两侧打开，左手掌心向下，右手掌心向上。
Turn left and turn left foot，lift right foot and step to the front，bring the right hand to the front and left hand touch the lower part of the upper arm.
左转，摆左脚尖，提右腿上步，带右手向前，左手合于右大臂下方。
Sink，and lift the right forearm.
下沉，右手小臂向上抬。
Continue to sink，relax both hands and drop them， meanwhile turning the left hand to the abdomen and drop the right hand to the right knee.
继续下沉，双手放松向下落，同时左手贴身翻掌，掌心向上落于小腹前，右手向下落于右膝上方。
Lift the right knee，and turn right hand to fist and lift.
提右膝，右手变拳上提。
Shake the right foot，meanwhile punching the right fist to the left hand.
震脚，同时右手砸拳于左掌心。
8.Closing Form（收势）
Sink，part both hands to the side，palm inward.
下沉，双手向身体两侧拉开，掌心向里。
Stand up，draw hands to shoulder height, palms down.
人起来，双手拉至肩平，掌心向下。
Sink，turn hands up and draw them up until alms face each other over the head.
人下沉，双手翻掌心向上，划弧至头顶，掌心相对。
Continue to sink，and press the hands down to the chest.
继续下沉，双手下按至胸前。
Slightly stand up，and press the hands to the abdomen.
慢慢起身，双手按腹部。
Separate the hands to the side，move weight to the right，sink and relax, hands go forward in an arc and back to the abdomen， meanwhile withdrawing the left foot.
双手向两侧拉开，移重心到右腿，下沉放松，双手往前下方划弧，收拢至下腹部，同时收左腿。
Stand with feet close together，and draw hands back to the side of the body.
双脚并拢，双手自然回于身体两侧。